Keeping the Secret of Genetic Testing
What is genetic risk ?
Genetic risk refers to your chance of inheriting a disorder or disease .
People develop certain diseases because of genetic changes .
How much a genetic change tells us about your chance of developing a disorder is not always clear .
If your genetic results indicate that you have the gene changes associated with an increased risk of heart disease , it does not mean that you definitely will develop heart disease .
The opposite is also true .
If your genetic results show that you do not have the changes associated with an increased risk of heart disease , it is still possible that you will develop heart disease .
However , for some rare diseases , people who have a specific set of gene changes are guaranteed to develop the disease .
When we are diagnosed with a certain genetic disease , should we disclose this result to our relatives ?
My answer is no .
On one hand , we do not want this potential danger to cause distress in our families ' later lives .
When people around us know that we have a certain disease , their attitude may change , either caring for us too much or keeping away from us .
Yet neither is what we want , since most of us just want to live as normal people .
In light of such concerns , it is very likely that we will worry about these problems .
It is a concern that will be with us for our whole life , because we will never know when the potential " bomb " will explode .
On the other hand , if there are ways that can help us to control or cure the disease , we can implement them in the scope of the whole family .
For example , if exercising helps to prevent a potential disease , we can always look for more opportunities for a family to go exercise .
We can also keep track of all family members ' health conditions .
At the same time , we are prepared if other members develop this disease .
Here , I want to share Forest 's view on this issue .
Although some people feel that an individual who is found to carry a dominant gene for Huntington 's disease has an ethical obligation to disclose that fact to his or her siblings , there currently is no legal requirement to do so .
In fact , requiring someone to communicate their own genetic risk to family members , who are therefore also at risk , is considered by many to be ethically dubious .
"
Nothing is absolutely right or wrong .
If a certain genetic disease test is very accurate and getting treatment is necessary and unavoidable , it is acceptable to disclose the result .
Above all , life is more important than secrecy
Genetic risk does have its consequences and should not be taken lightly within the family circle .
After all , what affects one family may or may not affect another even when the families have a common genetic make-up , shared by either of the parents .
In cases where an individual has found out that they might have a genetic disorder , disclosing , or otherwise , to his or her relatives is solely a matter of preference within an individual 's moral system .
The issue of right to know is highly debatable . Although there may be a genetic risk , one can not be entirely sure because the genetic information could come from the families of either parents , maternal and paternal uncles , aunts or cousin .
This also means that as soon as a person is made aware of their genetic profile , they concurrently have knowledge about others .
This knowledge may be relevant to them , and vice versa .
An example that may serve as an illustration is breast cancer .
It is hereditary .
Should someone who suffered from this disease keep it a secret from their relatives ?
In retrospect , it is also one 's duty to ensure that they undergo periodic healthchecks of their own .
Sometimes , some family structures and cultural beliefs can influence the pattern of communication .
Depending on whom the genetic risk was discovered in , the son or daughter for example , the parents would decide who gets told and who has the responsibility of being 'allowed ' to tell .
For example , within a family , regardless of who first received knowledge about their genetic information , parents are seen as having the primary responsibility to pass on information to any offspring at risk .
In addition , a woman testing positive for BRCA1 would be expected to allow her brothers or sisters to disclose such information to nieces or nephews , rather than do it herself , although this may be further complicated by an individual 's response to risk information if they do not want to know .
Hence , there might also be tension if carriers feel that they can neither pass on information to relatives who need to know ( such as nieces and nephews ) nor persuade those with authority ( the parents ) to do so .
The notion of authority also extends 'vertically' .
For example , a grandmother may have more authority to pass on information than an aunt , even when she is not at genetic risk herself while the aunt is .
From a practitioner 's perspective , these findings are important because if lay constructs of the family and kinship are a social construct , they may not be in line with geneticists ' views of family relationships , or about which blood ( or non-blood ) relatives should be informed and by whom ; this is also likely to be dependent on the cultural and ethnic context .
Ultimately , one must pay attention to who may benefit from such information and assist those at risk to make considered decisions about disclosure .
Whose duty it is to inform relatives at risk greatly depends on personal morals and the nature of how 'direct ' the risk is to them .
People with close blood relationships generally carry some similar genes .
As such , if one of the family members or close relatives is found to carry a genetic risk , it is better for the patient to tell his/her close relatives about the issue and let others know about the risk so that his/her family members are able to perform some daily exercises to prevent the potential disease , or otherwise go to hospital to check for the corresponding flaws .
In my opinion , although the disclosure of carrying a genetic risk involves the issue of self privacy , it is necessary for a carrier to be obliged to tell his or her relatives in order to prepare them for the potential disease .
I agree with this statement to a large extent .
I will first focus on the negative sides of disclosing genetic risk .
Large numbers of patients with a genetic risk might want to keep it a secret as the genetic risk may indicate a high chance of carrying a certain disease .
Especially regarding unmarried young people , if one partner is known to have a genetic risk , there may be a chance that their child would carry the same disease , but this is not certain .
Therefore , keeping the information secret from one 's future spouse might help the relationship .
Secondly , disclosing the potential risk might scare family members . Although the probability may not be that high , people might still be afraid that they could develop a potential disease in the future and thus go to hospital to have additional checks or take more medicine in order to prevent the disease ; this might incur unnecessary costs for the family .
Furthermore , the disclosure of the genetic risk might affect the relationship with one 's relatives as sometimes others may not want to stay too close to the carrier thinking that they will have less chance of catching the potential disease .
On the other hand , if the genetic risk is kept a secret , although it may benefit the carrier to a certain extent and help keep their privacy , there are much larger negative consequences for family members and relatives .
First , in the case of marriage , people should be honest and tell their spouse that they may carry certain genetic risks that might affect their offspring .
It is better to let the other party know before the baby is born and a certain type of genetic disease is found .
It is better for both parties to be honest .
Secondly , genetic disease has a close relationship with together with their daily habits .
For example , if a carrier is told that he/she is at risk of having diabetes .
In this case , the carrier could eat fewer candies and chocolates to lower their sugar intake . At the same time , if the carrier tells their relatives that they may have diabetes in the future because of related genes , they can perform the same exercises to intake less sugar and prevent the disease .
Otherwise , if the other parties do not know , they may end up with having diabetes in the future without any prevention .
In conclusion , we can say that the benefits of disclosing genetic risk information to the carrier 's relatives outweigh the costs .
Therefore , it would be better for the carrier to be obligated to give the information to his/her relatives , in order to let them know that they should prevent the potential disease by means of daily exercises .
Among all kinds of different diseases , a large number of disorders are caused by genetic reasons .
A genetic disorder may or may not be hereditary disease and it is sometimes hard to find out if one has these kinds of diseases .
Discussions have been going on for a long time about whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives that his or her disease is caused by genes .
From the legal aspect , the answer is no but from the ethical aspect , the answer should be yes .
We can not make a law to force a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell his or her relatives about his genetic problem .
It is immoral and impractical .
Firstly , what kind of disease someone has is a matter of his or her privacy .
Privacy protection is a human right .
If the law requires someone to tell others and violate their privacy , especially when they are not willing to do so .
It is againt his or her human rights and it is against the law 's spirit .
The law 's spirit also includes fairness .
What is the basic difference between genetic disorders and other disorders ?
It is unfair to release a law only targeting genetic disorders .
In addition , it is impractical to make such a law .
A good law should be clear and easy to execute .
However , there are many problems with asking a carrier to tell his or her relatives the cause of his or her disease .
Firstly , what is the range of the relatives ?
For example , does the carrier only need to tell his or her direct relatives , like parents and brothers and sisters , or does he also need to tell relatives like his grandmother 's sister 's son 's daughter 's nephew ?
If you say you only need to tell direct relatives , it will be against the fairness of law .
Other relatives may have the same chance of developing the same kind of disease .
How can a law made by government exclude such a group of people who should be preparing to face a potential disease ?
However , from the ethical point of view,
the carrier should have a feeling of responsibility to tell his or her relatives about their genetic disorder .
By doing this , they may be able to save the lives of their relatives .
A carrier with the bad gene may not necessarily develop the genetic disease if they have a healthy lifestyle before the age that the gene 's function become stronger .
A typical example is genetic hypertension .
Hypertension can be caused by genetic problems which make it harder for the carrier to digest the fat and salt in the blood .
People usually get this kind of hypertension after they become an adult .
However , if they already know that they have a gene that may make them more susceptible to hypertension,
they can make it a daily habit to eat less salt and fat and thus avoid hypertension .
In a nutshell , our society can not force a genetic disease carrier to disclose information about his or her disease to his or her relatives , but he or she should be willing to tell his or her relatives about his or her genetic problem .
In doing so , fewer of his or her loved ones will suffer from the genetic problem .
In the age of rapid technological advancement , a lot of medical breakthroughs have been made possible .
Genetic testing is now possible and even available if one decides to undergo it .
It is able to detect illnesses or diseases and even a child 's parentage .
However , it will become a controversial issue when it becomes a dilemma for a carrier of a known genetic risk to inform his or her relatives .
If knowledge of a genetic risk was to be shared within the family or among relatives , there might be a chance for them to have it in their blood , and so they may need to take precautions against it .
But , if it is a terminal genetic disease , many relatives may be disheartened upon having knowledge about it .
Therefore , some carriers will have the opinion of keeping it a secret .
This essay will discuss whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should tell his or her relatives or not .
Some say that the genetic risk that is found in a person should be kept secret because it is considered personal information which should be kept confidential .
Most patients will be depressed after finding out about his or her condition .
If one has a genetic disease after the test , he or she might not wish to inform their relatives as he might ended up disheartening his extended family .
Some will wish to keep it to themselves and hope to ensure that they will not bring any pessimism into their family .
Furthermore , some will wish not to become a burden on anyone as seeking medical attention is relatively costly .
Hence , some see it as considerate to keep genetic risk confidential .
On the other hand , others may think that it will be considerate to tell their relatives because the latter will have a higher chance of having the same genetic risk .
Hence , they will be able to seek help from medical specialists to find a cure or to take some measures to prevent getting the disease .
In any case , it will depend on what kind of genetic disease you have , given in the context of current medical technology .
For example , breast cancer is a genetic disease and it can be cured if it is discovered in the early stage .
Hence , having knowledge of this genetic risk , the relatives of those who have this genetic disease will be able to have a medical check-up , which might save them if the disease is discovered at an earlier stage .
In conclusion , it is considerate to inform relatives about the risk of getting the same genetic disease .
Although there may be a lot of challenges along the way in seeking medical attention , such as financial issues , everyone should be given the right to know their family 's inherited medical conditions .
However , some think that it might be better for those who are ignorant about it as they will continue leading a happy life .
In addition , some may think that even knowing about having a genetic risk will just add to their misery as there is nothing that they can do about it .
All-in-all , it depends on the individual and also the nature of the disease , but a person should be obligated to inform their relatives if there is a chance of curing or preventing it .
Genetic testing is a personal decision . With the knowledge that there is a possiblity that you could be a carrier or not .
Those who are born into a family with a history of genetic disease should be allowed to undergo genetic testing , even if there is no risk at all .
Early pre-examination is advisable as it will cast away unwanted doubts and affect the psychological thoughts of those who are affected .
For a genetic risk carrier , a choice should be given with regards to informing his/her relatives .
They should not be forced or obliged to tell , as this may negatively and drastically affect the emotions of the genetic risk carrier .
With regard to the choice given , there must be some rules to regulate and exercise the personal freedom of decision making .
If the genetic risk carrier is a minor or a child , then most likely the decision to inform relatives should be made with the consideration of the patient 's parents or legal guardian .
Such patients are still emotionally volatile and they may be unaware of the consequences of their genetic disorder due to their young age .
Furthermore , the act of informing others without the consent of the parents or patient themself could harm the psychological state of the affected family .
Thus , much thought needs to be given to the immediate family , as disclosure could cause a string of unwanted events that affects the patient or the family members themselves .
Some family may feel hurt , with regards to their family pride or reputation , on having the knowledge of a genetic disorder running in their family .
However , we have a role and responsibility to inform their relatives since it is a genetic disorder .
There may be a possibility that the genetic disorder could also affect relatives and any other families within the same family tree .
The importance of informing relatives of the genetic disease is vital , as it may help to raise awareness and prevention of the genetic disorder .
Also , this known information will help relatives to make informed decisions and to similarly undergo genetic testing to find out whether they are at risk .
Thus , having the knowledge that their genetic disorder is benign would be beneficial for their emotional thoughts .
And if the results turn out to be otherwise , then the family can be prepared emotionally and psychologically for the future outcome and aid the patient in making upcoming decisions .
In addition , the genetic risk carrier would be showered with moral and emotional support from their relatives if the genetic disease was made known to them .
Having support from relatives is vital as they can reassure the genetic risk carrier that he/she is not alone in facing this illness . This will certainly provide a morale boost as the whole family will share a common sentiment with regards to the future prospect of the genetic disorder being inherited by anyone in the family .
Therefore , the decision to inform relatives of such a genetic disorder will depend on the situation and background of the affected family , with freedom of choice being given to them in making the decision to inform others .
A person with a disorder , regardless of whether it is a mental or physical disorder , is always easy to be noticed by his or her families .
When things come to genetic issues , it is not that simple anymore .
Genetic disorder inheritance happens generation by generation , but not all of the offspring show the relevant symptoms .
Sometimes a family with a potential genetic disorder risk may not be able to detect the potential harm inside their bodies as none of their members reflect any observable disorder symptoms .
As a result , when one of the members happens to feel uncomfortable or abnormal , he or she should check whether the disorder in his or her body is a genetic risk or not .
Afterward , the carrier will face a serious ethical issue , which is whether to reveal the problem to his or her relatives or not .
If the disorder symptoms occur in a child , the parents will be informed by the medics , then the whole family will stay alert to their bodies ' condition .
On the other hand , if the carrier is an adult , who has his own choice to choose whether to inform his or her relatives about the risk , that will be more complex .
One may think that if the carrier is a caring person who loves his or her family more than himself , there is no doubt that he or she will tell his or her family about the issue .
That is true and of course it is the obligation of a family member to protect and take care of the family .
Thinking of the alternative , if a child of the family knows that he has a risk of becoming a genetic risk carrier , and the risk might also be inherited by his children in the future , he will have this dilemma his whole life .
And of course , he or she will think about not having any children after getting married , and cousins may think the same as well .
As a result , the family generation may stop the moment the adult carrier announces his issue .
In China , the older generation with a traditional cultural background , will always think of having more children as well as grandchildren , to make the family stronger .
The reason for this is that after WWII , the population of China decreased dramatically and so the government encouraged the people to have more children .
During that period , if one family member showed genetic disorder symptoms , he faced an ethical dilemma .
The medical treatment technology during that time was not advanced enough to completely cure him .
He had to choose whether to protect his family or make his family more prosperous with a potential genetic risk .
And so , he would have chosen not to undergo genetic disorder testing and let the truth be hidden forever .
This kind of ethical issue can not be judged by others because they would not understand the position and duty of the carrier in the family .
To conclude , people should think carefully about the consequences of telling their relatives about their genetic disorder issue .
A carrier has an obligation to inform his relatives , but also an obligation as a family member to raise a family .
Regardless , if the disorder is rarely fatal , or does not cause any inconvenience to the carrier , revealing the truth is always the right thing to do .
In my opinion , the carrier should tell his or her relatives about the genetic disease .
One of the reasons why is because , as a carrier , she or he will need mental support to get through the situation .
It will be hard for an individual to deal with the issue on their own .
By telling his or her family , other than for support , they could possibly help find alternative solutions to the problem that he or she is facing right now .
Other than that , I believe that the strong bond we have with our family is the biggest pillar of support for the carrier .
Furthermore , as it is a genetic problem , it will be better for the carrier to inform his or her family as other family members might experience the same thing .
By making sure that they are aware of this genetic problem , they could have a full check-up for themselves and it would be better if they could even prevent it from happening to themselves .
I find that it is important to inform , especially if it is contagious and the carrier could prevent the disease from spreading out into society .
For every action there are always pros and cons .
I believe that some of the carriers will choose not to reveal their disease to their family members as they do not want to make their family members worry and feel uncomfortable .
Furthermore , as it could incur spending lots of money for treatment , the carrier might not want to be a burden on her family .
I can understand the feelings of the carrier .
She or he does not want to be a source of unhappiness in their family .
However , we will never know whether these negative effects will happen when the carrier decides to tell his or her family about his or her condition .
In conclusion , I personally feel that it is better for the carrier to inform her family members about the issue .
The carrier should be honest with his or her feelings and I believe that it is the right of their family members to know what is going on in his or her life .
If anything bad happened to the carrier , not informing their family members could lead to much regret if they died before their family knew about the problem .
On top of that , it is better to think about solutions to the problem with one 's family members as there are more heads to think about it ; this is better than thinking about it alone and struggling on your own .
In the end , I believe that the mental or even monetary support from one 's family can help the carrier to fight against the genetic disease .
It is true that there are lots of cancer patients who were given a second chance to live as a normal person because they had strong mental support from their loved ones .
In my opinion , as long as we keep our minds healthy and strong , we can fight any disease that comes to us when we are fragile and weak .
As techonology has been advancing , it has reached a stage whereby the advancement triggers some ethical dilemmas in relation to the actual use of the techonology .
Genetic testing has been made possible - it has become easy to tell if someone is a carrier of a known genetic risk through genetic testing .
If used for a good purpose , this technology can prevent unnecessary unhappiness , however , it could also make the situation worse by revealing who the carrier is in a family .
The main question is whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives ; I think that the carrier should not be obligated to do so because I believe that he or she has the right not to tell .
Firstly , genetic testing is not something that is compulsory .
Of course , some people may do it to make their futures slightly happier , however , a carrier can choose not to go for a test and simply live with the unknowns and accept the facts .
If he chooses to live with the uncertainty that the gene holds and is willing to accept it , he could do that , as this is something that has been considered 'normal ' to everyone in the past when genetic testing was not possible .
It could rather be better for him or her this way .
Some people might say that genetic testing is a form of prevention of giving birth to disabled people and making them suffer in real life .
I personally think this is the right reason to undergo genetic testing , so that a family who can not afford to have a disabled child do not have to give birth to their child and make the entire family suffer .
However , I believe that the carrier has the right not to tell anyone , but has a responsibility to take action to prevent any ethical dilemmas .
If the result reveals something that the carrier can not accept then it would have been better not knowing the truth .
I believe that even the carrier has the right not to know the true fact .
After realizing that he or she is the carrier , the emotional damage might be hard to bear .
It could possibly cause a problem and create more unhappiness in the family .
Overall , I believe that it entirely depends on the carrier to share the hard facts and face them with relatives but he still has no obligation to tell .
In fact , I strongly think that the carrier should weigh both the positive and negative consequences of taking a genetic test and take appropriate action based on the results .
The emotional depression and the sense of guilt that the carrier might get can be more than expected and could be a burden on their mind for the rest of their life .
On the other hand , not knowing about any genetic disorder and accepting that fact , the family will stay positive and work together to overcome the disability .
I think the family will stay mentally healthy as it is , without having emotional stress .
Debates have been going on for years about whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to inform his or her relatives .
Any individual at risk of a disorder has the right to undergo genetic testing , but whether the results should be disclosed to others , especially close family or relatives , is a topic worth discussing .
This is an issue that needs to be addressed as a family-related ethical dilemma is involved .
In this essay , a few arguments will be pointed out in support of the view that any carrier of a known genetic risk should tell his or her relatives .
When we were born , we were surrounded by our family and relatives , with them welcoming us to this new world .
We were crying hard but we were not alone ; it is our family and relatives that bring us up .
Hence , they should be the people to be grateful for and the people we would like to share the joy with together .
However , in the case pertaining to any health issue or to the extent of a serious disorder , there may seem no point in sharing but this involves more than just the sharing of bad news .
One definitely has the right to disclose his or her health issues to anyone , but it is also one 's responsibility to inform the family and close relatives .
In the case of health issues being related to genetic risk , with emphasis on " genetic " , this highlights the risk of passing down the disorder to the next generation .
Therefore , I would agree that it is obligatory for a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell his or her relatives to avoid any family-related ethical dilemma that could be raised in the future .
Despite one arguing that it is still up to the individual to disclose a health issue or to bury it within him/herself , it is certainly helpful to share it with close relatives , for a proper discussion about solutions .
By doing so , one will feel less stressed when facing such a disorder .
Relatives will certainly be supportive and show more sympathy for the carrier of a known genetic risk .
By informing them , the carrier is never alone in fighting the battle .
On top of that , as the genetic risk may be passed down to the next generation , it will thus involve more than just one family .
It is for this reason therefore that I would agree with the obligation to tell the relatives of both parties when one is about to get married and there is a plan to have a child .
This would avoid the occurrence of more family-related ethical dilemmas .

In conclusion , in order to avoid a family-related ethical dilemma , it is best for any carrier of a known genetic risk to inform his/her relatives .
The benefits of doing so outweigh the disadvantages .
More support must be provided by different means to give better guidance to someone who is standing at a junction wondering whether they should inform their relatives or not .
The decision to undergo genetic testing can only be made by the individual at risk of a disorder .
This is a common law in society .
However , it leads to a new problem : should a carrier of a known genetic risk be obligated to tell his or her relatives ?
" This issue has been debated for a long time .
However , there is still a diversity of opinion among the people .
Thus , we are going to identify the advantages and disadvantages of the issue which is whether a carrier should tell their relatives or not .
Firstly , I believe most of us will agree with the following sentence : " I would be anxious about my family if a family member told me that he or she was a carrier of a known genetic risk " .
Frequently , carriers do not want to tell their families but continue their own lives without worrying their families .
It is obvious that it is better for one person to worry than many .
However , many carriers are not strong enough to overcome the challenges by themselves .
With the support of their family , there may be more energy to fight against the demon .
The demon can not be easily defeated and much energy and psychological support is required .
Families give you the courage and support which you can not supply by yourself .
This is the most essential element to overcome the challenges .
Besides that , the risk of a known genetic disease is so serious that it can not be described .
The seriousness can be larger than our imagination .
Lying on a bed for the remainder of our lives , and then dying suddenly ; these are circumstances which we can not imagine .
Families are dearest in our lives .
Without their concern and support , .
They play an important role in our life which can not be substituted .
A known genetic risk can also dramatically affect our next generation .
Therefore , it is our responsibility to tell our relatives to prevent the occurrence of undesired consequences .
Generally , a clinic or hospital will not tell the carrier 's families without the agreement of the carrier .
It is an ethic of the staff in a hospital to keep the secret of any patient .
We can not blame them for undesired consequences .
However , hospitals can provide a councilor to advise the carrier about what action can be taken .
Therefore , this kind of situation will not happen again and again .
It is a method that benefits two parties which is a win-win situation .
In conclusion , a carrier of a known genetic risk should be encouraged to tell his or her relatives about the known genetic risk .
There may , however , be some special case that is hard to define .
Thus , advice from a hospital plays an important role in this .
The carrier is responsible for balancing his or her own interests and the benefits of the family and even society .
It is a hard decision to make , but the most appropriate solution will create great circumstances for the carrier and families in the future .
At the risk of having a genetic disorder , many individuals make the decision to undergo genetic testing .
Once the tests are done and the results are known , each individual that is diagnosed as a genetic risk carrier faces an ethical problem : Should they warn their relatives about the possibility of also being a genetic risk carrier ?
Or should they choose to keep silent until the next carrier is diagnosed ?
From my point of view , a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives for the following reasons .
First of all , from the perspective of human rights , a genetic risk carrier should not be obligated to tell the truth about their disease to others .
This practice can be regarded as a kind of privacy for carriers .
They may not want this truth to influence their life or may want to keep it a secret and not let others know about it .
This is reasonable since the exposure of the truth of being a carrier may make them be discriminated against or pitied by others , neither of which are positive factors in one 's life .
Secondly , the relatives of the carrier can also choose to undergo genetic testing regardless of the diagnosis of the carrier .
When people want to check whether they are genetic risk carriers , they can go and approach a doctor about it .
If they do not want to think too much about it and view it as an inconvenience , they may just ignore the possibility .
However , if a diagnosed carrier is obligated to tell his or her relatives , the relatives will be unable to avoid knowing about their higher chance of being genetic risk carriers .

Many people may argue that making this an obligation would help save the lives of more people , who are the relatives of the carriers , because of the larger opportunity from an early diagnosis .
However , this is not entirely true when other factors , such as social and psychological influences , are taken into consideration .
If one such relative is told that he or she may have a higher risk of getting sick , he or she may be scared of the unknown , partners , spouses and colleagues may choose to leave , and many other situations may arise which mean the relative 's life may be ruined .
On the other hand , as stated above , a person who wants to know and is prepared to face the consequences can choose to have the genetic testing individually .
In a nutshell , a carrier of a known genetic risk should have their own right to decide whether to tell their relatives or not .
This should be accepted from the perspective of human rights , freedom of acceptance of relatives and for many other social reasons .
Otherwise , making it an obligation will restrict the choice of the carriers and bring a lot of confusion to their relatives .
For a carrier of a genetic disorder to know that he or she is a carrier causes more confusion than getting the disorder .
I agree that a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
There are four reasons why people do not have to be shy and should share their problems regarding genetic disorder .
Firstly , the carrier and his or her family can take precautions : physically by actions to reduce the chance of it being inherited by offspring and , mentally if the action fails to prevent it being inherited .
Many syndromes such as Down Syndrome and Taylor Syndrome can be prevented if the mother takes proper medication and does not consume harmful goods during the pregnancy period .
The mother may not know this information if she does not tell her relatives about her condition .
When more people ( relatives ) know her problem , more information can be provided .
If all efforts have been made but the children still suffer from the syndrome , then the family will have to accept this fact and do whatever they can to provide a good environment for their children to grow up in .
This is not the parent 's fault because there are still chances of the gene being inherited .
So , they also have to prepare mentally .
Secondly , the treatment and medication for a genetic disease costs a lot .
Albinism is one example .
People with albinism have sensitive skin which needs regular treatment .
Unlike people with high proportions of skin pigment , people with albinism are prone to sunburn and other skin diseases .
If they do not treat their body well , such as by using sunglasses or wearing sunscreen outdoors , the chances are high that they will get skin problems that may also lead to cancer .
Once you suffer from cancer , medication costs are very expensive .
To prevent the bigger problem from happening , it takes a lot of effort to take care of your body .
If the carrier does not tell his or her relatives , it may be too late to get their support and prepare financially .
Thirdly , some diseases are not noticeable and may lead to serious health problems .
One such disease is sickle cell trait .
Usually people are unaware that they carry the sickle cell gene and this may lead to circulatory problems such as blood blocking .
If the parents know that one of them is a carrier and disclose the information to their relatives then they can take their children to undergo genetic testing and should not need to be shy of it because it is for the sake of their children 's health .
Fourthly , it is important for the parents to give a mental boost to their children with the genetic disorder .
When their children become teenagers , a lot of social problems may arise .
People and friends often mock you for your conditions .
A strong mental conditioning and conviction must be built from within and from those closest to you .
If not from your family then who else is willing to do that ?
It is not a heavy job for the family if they have prepared mentally first by disclosing the information about the probability that their children may suffer from a genetic disorder .
In this modern world , technology has improved a lot compared to the last century .
Particularly in the medical field , there has been a great improvement in many treatments for many formally incurable diseases , and genetic testing is one of the methods which is used to diagnose an individual at risk of a genetic disorder .
The medical authorities claim that only the individual who is at risk of a genetic disorder can make the decision to undergo genetic testing .
However , once a test has been conducted and the results are known , a family-related ethical dilemma is born .
The question is whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should tell his or her relatives .
In my opinion , the carrier of a known genetic risk has to tell his or her relatives about this .
This is because his or her relatives have the right to know .
As many people realize , a genetic disorder can be related to the carrier 's relatives . That is , one family member being at risk of a genetic disorder means that other family members have almost the same chance of having it , so this problem should be treated seriously by the family .
Every family member has a human right to know what is going on within their family .
If they do not even know that they are at risk of a genetic disorder ,
For instance , John is informed by his doctor that he is at risk of a genetic disorder but he does not tell his sibling , James , about this .
Although telling James about this is horrible to some extent , he should know what problem he is likely to face in the future .
This might be beneficial in his future if he is aware of the risks of having this disorder .
The next point is that telling relatives can raise their awareness of having a genetic disorder , preventing certain genetic disorders from affecting themselves .
Genetic disorders are innate , but great improvements in medical treatment make it possible for humans to prevent the disorder or to reduce its negative effects .
In addition , doctors usually quote the statement , " Prevention is better than curation " ; this gives us an idea that preventing a disorder from happening has far more advantages than curing it .
Awareness of having a genetic disorder may help in diagnosing a genetic disorder for a person , and therefore , this may make the prevention of a certain disorder possible .
For example , hypertension is caused partially due to genetic factors , but environmental factors also play an important role .
People who are aware of having such a disorder can prevent the disorder from happening by adapting a healthy lifestyle , including having a balanced diet and taking at least 30 minutes of exercise every day .
To sum up , a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
They have a human right to know , and it may also save their lives by preventing the disorder from happening .
Along with the advancement of technology over the past few decades , medical advancement has increased exponentially , and further enhancements are still being made . By empowering doctors with advanced medical knowledge , doctors are able to diagnose and carry out genetic testing on patients to help them prevent disease and take necessary steps to protect their lives . However once a test has been conducted and the results are known , the question of disclosing the results to his or her relatives becomes a challenging issue to both patient and doctor . In my opinion , I feel a strong urge to support the obligation to inform a patient 's relatives .
As it is a genetic risk , the patient 's next-of-kin might have a high chance of carrying the risk ; hence the need to inform their relatives is important so that the necessary prevention actions can be taken before unforeseen circumstances occur . For example , if you are the only child in a family and , unfortunately , you are suffering from a genetic disease such that the genetic trait might be passed on to your next generation if you have a child , making your family members aware of the situation might reduce family stresses and suffering on forcing you to settle down and have children . However , social ethical issues like discrimination and privacy are the biggest concerns and potential barriers to enforcing patients or doctors to disclose information to a patient 's relatives . It challenges the confidentiality and privacy principles . Currently , under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ( HIPPA ) in the United States , there is no legal obligation or requirement to disclose information to relatives ; it is up to the patient to tell their family members . Early disclosure to family members has a positive effect on prevention , such as in the case of Angelina Jolie , who chose to disclose information and undergo treatment to reduce the risk of breast cancer significantly to under five percent . I can still recall that her reason for disclosing her own story was that she does not want to live under the shadow of cancer .
However , there are still people against the idea of revealing private information . For example , in the case of Alzheimer patients , it is up to the patient to disclose information . However , research has shown that doctors have tried to investigate who Alzheimer disease should be disclosed to , to minimise the potential negative impact on family members ( DementiaToday , 2012 ) . There are associations that provide help to Alzheimer patients like the Alzheimer 's Association ( Alzheimer 's Association , 1980 ) . Although there are still thousands of genetic risk carriers out there that might not be receiving help and support from everyone , the need to receive immediate understanding and support from family members is an utmost help that patients need in their difficult time .
In conclusion , the state should have passed a legal bill to measure and provide information to doctors that defines to what extent a doctor should is able to reveal a genetic disease to a patient 's relatives and in which situations it is the patient 's decision . In addition , the state could also create assistance schemes to give necessary help to vulnerable patients and to encourage them to open up for the benefit of themselves and their family members . Although this may face challenges from social ethical issues , in the long term , with appropriate encouragement and aid from the government , more individuals might have a different view of acceptance and take appropriate measurements to protect their own health and their loved ones .
Nowadays , research in the field of genetics has gone further and further due to high-velocity technological advancement .
Not long ago , the human genome project sponsored by several large multinational corporations ( MNCs ) was started .
In comparison , in the field of genetic testing , which enables people to become aware of the risks of a possible genetic disorder , as the technology has matured already , an even more popular topic arises .
While most people agree that each individual has his own right to decide whether to undergo a genetic test or not , they have different stances on whether it is the patient 's responsibility or freedom to share the result with his or her relatives .
In my opinion , patients who are carriers of some known genetic risk should share the truth with their family members .
You must admit that everyone has a social obligation to be responsible for the life of other people .
To a whole society , it is a duty .
Take H1N1 as an example : everybody in Singapore , including students at school , travelers at Changi Airport , workers in the office as well as passengers on the street , was forced by law to take their temperature and report the result to the relevant government authority .
To those family members who care about them , it is also a moral obligation .
How can they not tell their loved ones who they really are and put their loved ones in danger ?
The basis of a family is that everyone trusts and loves each other unquestioningly .
Without trust and love , there is no difference between a family and a bunch of strangers living together .
Hence , it is essential for a person to tell their family members about the risk of their genetic disorder both as a social responsibility and as a favor to preserve the family unit .
Moreover , telling their family members the truth is the fastest and easiest way to get their support .
Without the support of loved ones , a patient 's life is no better than death .
Family members , as one of the closest groups of people from whom they can get comfort , are a crucial factor for them to successfully overcome any possible difficulties as a result of a genetic disorder .
A study by New York University in 2010 showed that patients with family members around them generally recovered 2-4 days faster than those taken care of only by professional nurses .
Even for those patients with terminal diseases , the duration of their survival is 30 % longer due to their family support .
Some people may say that telling the truth will cause panic which will endanger family harmony .
While every family needs to go through this or that kind of troublesome situation from time to time , the more troubles that a family goes through together , the greater the bond established between family members , as well as a greater amount of trust , love and understanding , will be .
Hence , for a family in which every member truly believes in each other and loves each other , all these troubles are just tests to make them stronger .
As in the lyrics of Kelly Clarkson : " what does n't kill you makes you stronger . "
Being in an Asian society where genetic testing is not a common practice , I do think that it is the choice of the patient whether he or she wants to tell his or her relatives about his or her disease .
The courage to take the genetic test and yet to inform their relatives about the risk that they may have , may result in people being judgmental , while actually it is just a risk and not a confirmed case .
Furthermore , since it is the person 's gene that is affected , he has the right to decide with whom he wants to share the information .
Nevertheless , while I feel that a carrier should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives about the genetic risk , I would like to suggest that the person at least share the information with her or his potential partner ( husband or wife ) since the individual 's genetic risk may affect their future children .
Many people in our society are not well informed about many genetic diseases and many of them will most likely judge or at least discriminate against those who have genetic diseases since they feel that the patients are abnormal or 'weird' .
This is because many genetic diseases are related to those such as Bubble-Boy disease , autism or down-syndrome .
In those diseases , many who are affected do actually have different physical characteristics compared to those without the genetic diseases .
While we do know that we should not discriminate against them based on their limitations , many people still do it with or without realizing it .
In this particular case , we are discussing whether a person should tell his relatives about having a RISK of a particular genetic disease .
It is normal for people to demand fair and similar treatment to others and therefore it is normal for people to try to keep some of their secrets or personal issues to themselves , in case some people judge them or treat them differently . Many people really love to hear what they want to hear and therefore they may just ignore the word 'risk ' and assume that the person has suffered from the disease .
To prevent that from happening , I do feel that it is up to the person whether he wants to share the information with his family , since his family may either be paranoid or judge him and act differently .
Especially when it is just a risk , the option is really his since he is not an actual sufferer .
There may be some people who say that it is necessary to tell family members about the risk since some of them may be affected . While I do think that this view has a point , how much you can trust your family regarding this issue may also be a concern .
Maybe we can trust our immediate family members but can we really trust all our other relatives ?
Furthermore , since a genetic risk or genetic disease is a very personal matter , it is up to the person to tell their relatives about it .
However , as I said earlier , it is better for the person to at least discuss the potential risk with his or her future partner since the genetic risk may affect their children later .
This information needs to be at least acknowledged by the other party before they make the decision to get married and have children .
There may be cases where both the husband and wife are carriers and therefore they should not have any children since their children may not be able to survive after they are born .
Or in a less extreme case , the child may be disabled .
This piece of information does play a role in family planning matters , therefore although no one is obliged to tell their genetic risk to anyone , they should be encouraged to tell it to their future partner .
In conclusion , whether or not the carrier wants to tell his relatives about his genetic risk , the choice is his because they are his own genes and he has full rights to them .
He may have different considerations , other than worrying about judging people or making his family worry for nothing , when thinking about whether he should tell his relatives , but no matter what choice he makes , we need to respect it and we have no right to say that he must tell his relatives about it .
We all know that life is priceless and we have no right to criticise a person upon their death .
With improvements in technology , we can now detect a genetic risk in new-born babies .
Genetic refers to the chance of inheriting a disorder or disease .
Therefore an entirely new dilemma arises : should a carrier of a known genetic risk be obligated to tell his or her relatives ?
This essay will discuss the reasons why relatives should be informed when their children have a genetic risk .
One of the reasons that parents should be informed is that they have to decide whether they are capable of raising a child with a genetic risk .
The child with the genetic risk may not have the ability to work , to build up a family with others and most of the time may not be acceptable to the majority .
They may not be able to enjoy the life normal people can enjoy .
This competitive world is cruel to those who are not able to survive .
Parents and relatives have to work longer than expected and endlessly foster their child if they are not able to look after themselves .
The situation may become worse if the child has diseases like cancer or heart disease , which means that parents have another burden in the form of medication fees .
Not only the child , but also the entire family will suffer .
It is still early for parents to decide whether they can support a new life that may not be able to work and may suffer pain their entire life .
The other reason that parents should know whether the baby they have is a carrier of genetic risk is for a nation 's good .
There are always newspaper reports about new born babies that have been abandoned at hospital after the parents realized the baby has diseases that need a huge amount of money to treat .
Countries like Singapore are already short of manpower .
However , every year the government has to spend a lot to help the disabled with things such as medical subsidizes and build special schools to educate them .
Without the increasing number of disabled in a nation , a government would be able to concentrate on developing in other ways like the military and education .
As citizens of a nation , they have the responsibility to support their country in many ways .
Moreover , in the world we are living today , many miscarriages occur in hospital every day .
It is easier for people to accept it morally .
Therefore I believe that parents have the right to know about the healthiness of their child .
Many people may support the theory that everybody has a right to enjoy the world , especially religious people .
However , the problem is , will a person really enjoy their life if they have to stay in hospital everyday with all the needles and endless pain ?
Parents know what is best for their children , thus they will make the right decision after they have been informed .
Also , human beings should improve the medical field in order to prevent a tragedy from happening .
I think a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
Genetic testing is a personal choice .
One should have full control of his/her information and it is his/her right to decide whether or not to disclose it to someone else .
As far as I am concerned , when a couple are going to have babies , they should run a few tests and see whether their child could have any genetic diseases .
The results should be disclosed to husbands and wives .
This is not the case I am talking about here .
The most obvious reason supporting those who argue in favour of this opinion is that the relatives of the carrier are at high risk of carrying these diseases .
They have the right to know whether they are at risk .
Also , telling them the result can largely reduce the cost for multiple testing .
They can also take immediate measures to reduce the possibility of having this disease .
If a person has a disease C that might be a result of gene A .
He could run a test and discover that he has the gene AA .
This means both of his parents have gene A and they are both at high risk of having disease C. They could save the cost of running two separate tests to see whether they are at high risk of having disease C. If he runs a test and discovers that he has the gene Aa .
This means one of his parents has gene A and the cost of one test could be saved .
His relatives can then take measures , if this disease can somehow be prevented , to stop this disease from taking their lives .
However , this can also be achieved through personal choice .
One can choose to tell their relatives if they are at risk .
Most people care about their relatives ; if there is no serious consequence from telling them , I assume most of them will tell their relatives to be careful .
One might also choose to encourage certain relatives to run a gene test if they are concerned about the negative consequences that arise when they disclose their genetic results .
There are possible negative consequences that a person might face if they disclose their genetic results to their relatives .
If a person is obliged to tell his/her relatives , he or she might be discriminated against by those who do not carry this gene .
He or she might even be advised not to get married or have children .
For example , if an unmarried person has gene Aa and gene aa is sufficient for a very serious disease .
After he takes the test and is obliged to tell his relatives , everyone will know that he is a carrier .
So all married couples should go and run a test to prove they are not carriers . They might subconsiously see the carrier as different and worry that he will find a wife who carries this gene as well .
Thirdly , it is hard to define relatives .
If a gene runs in the family and one of the family members tests positive , whom does he need to tell ?
If it is a big family , is he obliged to tell everyone ?
Spouses usually have very close relationships . If person A tells his family that he has this gene , and his uncle C knows and tells his wife D that he needs to run a test because his cousin has this disease,
However wife D is not even under the risk of having this disease .
Then wife D might tell her mother , who likes to gossip on her way to the theatre .
In less than a week , half the town may know that person A has a risk gene , and his family might be carriers of a genetic risk .
Then nobody wants to marry A , or his relatives .
This is a potential consequence if someone does not have full control of his/her information , especially when the party that he is obliged to disclose his information to is a potentially large group ( relatives ) .
In conclusion , a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
Carriers of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
Nowadays , people not only pursue comfort in their own life , but also better development for their following generations .
Since technology in modern society has become so advanced , it becomes possible for people to make decisions to take genetic tests so as to be clear whether or not they carry a genetic risk which can affect their next generation .
The debatable question , an ethical dilemma , is who should be responsible for telling their relatives that they carry a known genetic risk ?
In my opinion , the responsibility to tell family and relatives is quite obvious .
There are two basic reasons :
The first is the importance of being responsible for your own well-being and health of your relatives and the second is being responsible for the next generation .
Your relatives ' and family 's awareness of your genetic risk is good for your well-being and health of your relatives .
This is because if you carry that genetic risk , then there is a great possibility that your relatives , like parents or siblings , carry the same genetic risk as well .
The genetic risk that you carry may or may not affect your health and put you in danger .
If you have not undergone genetic testing , it is just down to fate what will happen to both you and your relatives .
However , if you have undergone testing and know that you are a carrier , you are responsible for your whole family .
Even though you can not eliminate the risk completely , you can at least try to be active in avoiding the disease .
As for those in your family who are more likely to be affected , they can go to hospital to have check-ups regularly .
Therefore , telling families and relatives to get prepared to fight the disease is your responsibility .
Furthermore , you are also responsible for your next generation by telling the truth that you are a carrier of a genetic risk .
If your wife is not aware of the truth and gives birth to a baby , it is possible that your child carries the same genetic risk as well .
Being the parent , you would hence not be showing responsibility for your next generation , since you allowed the genetic risk to be passed on generation by generation despite being aware of it .
However , if you tell the truth to your wife and relatives , you offer them a chance to decide whether to have child or not .
And if you still decide to have the baby , since technology has become so advanced and it is possible in the future that gene alteration will be perfected and widely used , you can then choose to give birth to babies giving them a brighter future .
This is the responsibility of being a parent .
And in my opinion , this seems to be the main reason to undergo genetic testing in the first place .
In conclusion , once you have undergone genetic testing and are aware that you carry some specific genetic risk , you have a responsibility to your relatives , yourself , and your following generations by telling your relatives and families the truth .
To tell or not to tell
Consider the following case : we decide to undergo genetic testing and receive the result .
We discover that we actually are a genetic risk carrier .
It then becomes troublesome about whether we need to tell our relatives who may carry this genetic risk as well .
There are really a lot of things we need to consider .
Every choice we make may have a huge impact on their whole life .
As a result , what should we do ?
Tell them or keep this secret until we die ?
Many people feel that we should tell our relatives since we really care about their health .
For example , diabetes is a kind of genetic disease .
Once we discover we are carrying this genetic risk , it is better for us to tell our family members because they may carry it as well .
If we tell them , they may start paying more attention to their daily habits like eating less sugary food and staying in a good mood .
And it is important for young people .
The earlier we tell them , the better the habit they will develop and maintain for the rest of their lives .
What is more , they may undergo a genetic test as well to see whether they are carrying the risk gene or not which is also better for them .
Some people may argue why we would want to interfere with their lives ?
Sometimes it becomes extremely hard for them to accept this news , especially if they learn that they or their descendants may have a severe disease like blood disease which is untreatable .
Imagine you are living like a normal person but suddenly one day your relative tells you that actually there is a possibility that you may encounter some disease in the future ; what kind of feeling are you going to have ?
It may affect our daily lives and we will think about it every day .
We may become so anxious that we can not focus on anything
At the same time , there may also be a chance that the genetic test result is not correct which means they are actually wasting their lives worrying about nothing , so actually we are bringing trouble to them .
Personally , I feel that we still should take the responsibility to inform them of the situation .
Since this will really affect their lives , what we should do is to try to make it positive .
We can not let it go .
We should know that although we may affect their lives , we can still help them make the correct choices in the future .
It is only after we tell them that they will start paying attention to their health .
They will debate whether they should give birth to a new baby because of this genetic problem and will start finding ways to try to prevent their baby from carrying this genetic risk as well .
They always have a choice whether to undergo the genetic test or not .
Maybe after we tell them , they will go for it and find out more about themselves .
I know it will have a huge impact on them , but we should remember that they are our loved ones ; we need to tell them and help them .
A genetic risk carrier should be obliged to tell
Genetic testing should be conducted when an individual is at risk of some possible disease .
Once the test is done , whether the results should be open to his or her relatives has caused widespread social controversy .
Some say it is a kind of invasion of privacy for the carrier who should be protected .
He or she has the right not to tell anyone .
However , in my opinion , it is the obligation of a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell his or her relatives about his or her actual situation .
This essay will illustrate this point in two aspects .
First of all , it can be a warning to the family members of the patient by making them aware of the possible disease that they may also have .
As we all know , genetic risk carriers are likely to pass their genes to their family members .
Once one person in the family is found to be carrying a risky gene , other members in his or her family may also be at risk of disease .
Some diseases may not show symptoms until the carrier is old enough .
Therefore , telling relatives about the situation may avoid a lot of trouble and , in this way , save much time for proper treatment .
Sometimes a life may even be saved if they are told early enough and treatment is conducted in a timely fashion .
So for the consideration of the other family members , relatives should be informed .
Secondly , telling your relatives can prevent a genetic disease from being passed down to the next generation when they intend to have babies .
They should let their spouse know about the situation before marriage .
They should ask for doctor 's advice before they plan to have a baby .
Some genes pass only to boys rather than girls , while some do the contrary .
If the carrier refuses to tell the truth to his or her spouse , another life may be at risk of inheriting the genetic disease .
I noticed a true story in the newspaper years ago .
A couple in China had a 5 year old son .
Their son unfortunately fell ill and was diagnosed with a kind of genetic disease which is very serious .
They were told that the wife 's family was carrying a polygenetic disorder which can only be passed to boys rather than girls .
Therefore their son inherited the genetic disease .
However , the wife actually already knew about the polygenetic disorder before the marriage but did not tell her husband .
The son died after one year 's treatment and the couple got divorced after that .
If the wife had not hidden the truth and asked for doctor 's advice before they had a baby , the tragedy would not have happened .
In a nutshell , a carrier of a known genetic risk has the responsibility to tell his or her relatives .
Telling members of the carrier 's family about the possible disease they may have might allow them to get treatment in time if possible .
On the other hand , the disease may be passed to the next generation if the carrier hides the truth .
Nowadays , with the advancement of technology , it is easy to do genetic testing .
We can not deny that genetic testing really helps people a lot when they face the problem of having a genetic disorder .
However , I think that genetic information is a person 's private property which should be protected by the law .
Therefore , I think a known genetic risk carrier should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives .
I think this for three reasons as follows .
Firstly , the information concerning someone 's genetics is something personal which is also private like someone 's bank card key .
Other people should not be told without the person 's permission , even if they are his or her family or relatives .
The government should set the law to protect this kind of privacy .
Once people 's genetic information is made available to other people .
They may naturally find out about a person 's potential for disease or other bad things .
They may develop a bias against this person or even abandon him or her .
People do not have the ability to choose their genes ; they should not be thought of badly because of bad genes .
So I think whatever their genetics or whether the gene matches with their parents , it should not be told to anyone even his or her family or relatives .
Secondly , the carrier of a known genetic risk may destroy the peace in a family , or even break the relationship between children and adults .
Once his or her family or relatives know that the carrier does not have a good relationship with them .
However happy they were before , a barrier may appear which will gradually destroy the family .
The relationship between parents and their children should not be tested only in terms of genetics ; it is something much deeper and tighter .
Parents give knowledge and love to their children , while at the same time they feel happy in the company of their children .
The children rely on their parents to live .
When they grow up , they take care of their old parents and thank them for their dedication .
The relationship between parents and children is about love and dedication .
Everyone does not want to see the scene of the broken family caused by the carrier of a known genetic risk .
Therefore , I think a known genetic risk carrier should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives without the person 's permission .
Finally , gene testing technology is not very mature now .
There is also some possibility of getting wrong results .
If the mistaken results were not found by the doctor , the family and their children may be sad and struggle for their whole lives .
Therefore I think a known genetic risk carrier should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives .
Therefore , considering people 's privacy and the existence of mistaken testing , for the peace of the family , I support the view that a known genetic risk carrier should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives without the person 's permission .
A Carrier of a Known Genetic Risk Should be Obligated to Tell His or Her Relatives
More and more illnesses are found to be related to some genes through the development of medical technology .
People know whether they carry a disease in their genes after they have undergone a genetic test .
If there is no problem , that is wonderful .
However , not everybody is so lucky in making sure that they do not carry any disease genes .
Therefore , once people find they carry the disease genes , they should be responsible and tell their relatives , at least their family members .
It may be awkward and embarrassing for a person to tell their relatives that they are a carrier of a known genetic risk .
But since they are all from one family and share the same forefathers , then of course they have the same genes in some part .
Therefore there is nothing to be shy or afraid of .
If the person tells their relatives that they carry a disease gene , his or her relatives can go to hospital to check whether they also have the disease gene .
Then relatives can prepare themselves to prevent the disease from appearing .
Also they can prevent the disease spreading to their offspring .
If some relatives carry the disease gene , they can share the experience with the carrier and give them some help ; they will also teach them how to communicate with others about this issue .
If the carrier gets married , they must tell their partner that they carry a disease gene .
Then they can have a healthy baby with the help of the doctors .
Or else , if he holds back the genetic risk , they may have an unhealthy baby which may cause the death of the baby or end of their marriage .
There is a story I watched on TV .
A couple did not have a child after their marriage for a long time . Their parents were anxious about this and asked them to go to hospital to check what the problem was .
After they came back from the hospital , the man told his parents the problem was that he carried a disease gene which meant they could not have a baby in their life time .
The woman did not know the test result , but she overheard the discussion and decided to divorce her husband .
After getting the divorce certificate , the man showed her the test report ; it said that the woman carried the disease gene instead of the man .
At that time , the woman knew how much her husband loved her but she ruined her happiness .
Tears showed nothing .
People can not avoid carrying disease genes , which they are born with .
However , they can prevent the disease genes being inherited by their children .
By telling their relatives that they may have a risk of carrying the disease gene , family members can bond more closely and many risks and conflicts can be avoided .
Genetic testing has become a beneficial way to predict and protect each individual at risk of a disorder .
However , a family-related ethical dilemma arises concerning whether it is right to tell a carrier 's family once the test has been conducted and the results are known .
I am most inclined to believe that the carrier 's relatives have the right to know the result .
The fact is simply that everyone , especially our family , has the right to know the truth .
Though it is said that genetic testing involves emotional and social risks , while the potential negative impacts of the risk still exist , the consequences are significant if the other members of the family do not know .
Then they would be unable to put in place a suitable method to protect themselves and make emotional preparations .
Take Angeline Jolie for example ; she is famous but still revealed the truth about her genetic test on the development of her breast cancer risk .
Everything is not that bad if you know how to look on the bright side with hope .
People may feel angry , depressed , or even guilty about their results .
In some cases , there can be tension within a carrier 's family because the result also affects everyone else .
However , I believe this is just a usual reaction to this situation .
In addition , although it is possible in some cases that the carrier and their family experience specific discrimination in employment and their social life , we must wonder how people are able to cope with more severe tragedies such as sickness or death if they can not even overcome this harsh situation .
Life is hard but people can not blame it on being unfair .
It is just because you did not become strong enough to overcome the challenge .
Furthermore , living with a secret is not a good sensation , especially if the situations of other relatives become worse ; you should feel guilty and depressed .
Moreover , the truth can not be hidden forever but when it is revealed , the more shocking and upsetting it will be .
As a result , it is in the interests of the carriers to tell the result of the genetic test to their relatives .
Last but not least , though genetic testing is a personal matter , telling the result to your family can improve and develop the understanding and sympathy towards each other as well as promote awareness of taking care of everyone 's health .
This plays an important role in the possibility that relatives overcome the discrimination of society and its anxiety about the risks .
In a nutshell , I believe that people should have an obligation to tell their relatives about the genetic testing result for the good of their health .
It may be very difficult for them but is necessary for the carriers and their family .
In addition , emotional preparations and the ways you explain your genetic condition are also important , so that you can convey the correct information to your family and relatives and , if necessary , guide them if they wish to conduct a similar genetic test .
The Impact Of Social Media
Social media plays a vital role in our lives today .
It is almost impossible for us to keep away from it .
I first got involved in Facebook one year ago when I just arrived in Singapore,
and now have over 500 friends on Facebook and am buried under hundreds of posts every day .
We know each other 's statuses , changes and so on through social media .
For example , if we change our contact numbers , we no longer have to send SMS messages to every individual one at a time .
Instead , we will make a post and tag our friends to inform them of this kind of change .
And if you are not on it , you will just get left out .
In certain aspects , social media has brought us quite a lot of convenience .
It has become even more convenient than talking through the phone since it is free .
We discuss everything we like and we have more personal space . Our friends also get more access to us to find out what we are doing and what we like .
Also , we get a chance to talk to public people like pop-stars and know their life better .
In China , a lot of government organizations have opened blogs to communicate with people like firefighters , policemen and so on .
Social media allows them to explain to or inform people what is going on .
And actually lots of rescuing jobs are done with the help of social media , like looking for people who got lost and so on .
With more convenient communications , the relationship between the government and the people is largely improved .
What is more , various cultures can be shown to us through social media .
We can find more news and cultures through social media .
From this perspective , social media has shortened the distance between us .
However , we get less of chance and less interested in talking face to face since social media is so convenient , advanced and interesting .
And even when we gather together , more people find themselves with fewer topics to talk about than before and prefer to interract via their social media again .
When we are far away , social media makes it as if we were in front of each other ; sometimes when we are by each other 's side , we seem to be further than far away .
This kind of feeling makes people 's relationships less stable , secure and reliable than before .
Besides , there are more people showing their pictures of delicious food or travelling experiences .
To some extent , this makes our life more luxurious .
For myself , I long to visit some places after I have seen the beautiful pictures taken by my friends .
Sometimes I even can not sleep well out of excitement .
Social media makes our lives faster and leaves us less time to think about our life .
Social media is becoming more important and we need to think more about how to make it serve us better and better .
Interpersonal skills , like any other skills , require practice .
Besides that , these skills require time to develop and adapt .
The burgeoning of social media is definitely having its day , but like all good things , it is better to have it in moderation .
Convenience and efficiency are two very important uses of social media .
While millions of users are connected at any one time , any information can be readily available for their perusal .
This improves the connectivity between users .
For example , one is able to send notifications and other information we used to only have in hardcopy over the web and the process takes seconds .
The recipient will then receive the information almost immediately depending on the quality of the network .
This convenience can be percieved as almost in real-time .
Next , communication is also greatly improved .
In the past , long-range communication was done by telegram , snail mail and poor-quality voice calls .
With the introduction of applications such as Skype and Facetime , most of the methods of communication from the old days can be phased out .
Aside from voice chat , a webcam could also be used to emulate a 'real ' interaction with expressions and gestures .
Communication would have taken a different turn without easily available social media .
However , it is good practice not to intensively use social media all the time .
Intimate interaction is noticeably lacking in social media interactions , particularly touch .
Having to meet and interact allows one to be closer to the recipient .
It involves a level of dynamic interaction which utilises the motor , thinking and verbal cortex of the mind to coordinate .
This is unlike social media , where most of the interaction is done with thinking and typing .
As a result , one does not train the necessary skills required for proper interpersonal relations .
It is also entirely incorrect to fault social media alone for one 's lack of interpersonal skills .
Howard Garner studied the effect of multiple intelligences amongst people and stated that interpersonal intelligence is a form of skill on its own - some have it , some do not .
Howard Garner mentioned that the different intelligences can be charted , by means of testing , and ranked .
Fundamentally , those who score lower on interpersonal skills are more likely to stumble when this skill is needed .
Though social media need not be necessarily bad , it must be used responsibly - for work , family and friends .
The types of use must also be taken note of - informing , interacting , discussing etc .
The distance between parties must also be looked at .
For people who are living very far from one another , intense use of social media is justified .
On the other hand , those who live within the community should at least meet up , and not use social media as the primary source of communcation with each other .
At the same time , this improves one 's interpersonal skills , through dynamic practices between individuals and their real-time presence .
The inclusion of intimacy and touch could also cause a better rapport between those interacting .
Recently , the rise of social media has helped people to have closer connections with each other . It is a more convenient and cheaper way to have online contact compared to face to face meetings .
In my opinion , social media websites such as Twitter and Facebook will not affect the chance for people to have face to face contact and thus negatively affect interpersonal skills .
On the other hand , it may even increase the chance of having face to face contact with people .
First , social media networks have a large user base which helps to link people from different parts of the world .
In the days without social networks , people may not have had the chance to get to know others from different countries or the people they never met before .
The number of people that they knew was only limited to the people they met in daily life , like classmates and working partners .
Therefore , social networks create more and more connections between people who may have a chance to chat with people they never knew before , and this helps to develop interpersonal skills as well .
Secondly , although people spend time chatting online and not face to face , they may still decide a time online to meet others face to face in their daily lives .
In this case , a social network helps people to increase the frequency of their meetings .
For example , if social networks did not exist , business people would need to meet each other face to face , which can be time consuming , especially if the business is not so important ; it a lot of time may be wasted on travel .
However , social networks help people to meet and chat much more easily ; they can even use video chat and create group chat to chat with multiple parties at the same time .
Nowadays , some companies even conduct online video interviews with their applicants using video chat as it saves time and money .
Social networks may also have some negative impacts on people .
The largest negative impact is that due to the online network , some people start to use and rely on the internet every minute .
They take too much time using online social networks and thus do not have time to have their daily meetings with people in real life .
This not only affects their interpersonal skills but is also bad for people 's health if they spend too much time on social media .
Secondly , social networks may leak certain personal information to the public . As the cyber environment is not perfect and not safe , people may not protect their privacy online effectively and sometimes , some people may use others ' personal information to deceive .
In conclusion , apart from the unsafe online environment , spending too much time on the internet may be a potential negative factor of using online social networks .
It provides people with a more convenient contact environment and improves the frequency of meetings with others .
It also helps people to develop their interpersonal skills through online chatting .
Overall , there are more benefits than costs .
The world is increasingly becoming smaller thanks to all kinds of social network websites such as facebook and twitter .
We can even know what a friend who lives thousands of miles away ate for lunch due to these kinds of social media .
From some points of view , social media really has a lot of advantages , such as letting us communicate with friends more cheaply and more conveniently .
However , its disadvantages also can not be ingnored when you consider it a platform to show off and a stage for cyber crime .
Social network sites provides us with many conveniences .
When we are not hanging out with friends or talking with friends by phone , we can find out his or her latest news by scanning their webpage .
It can help us know more about each other .
It can make people become closer as well .
For example , if you find out one of your friend 's favourite singers is Justin Bieber through facebook , you can give him or her Justin Bieber 's new album or concert ticket as a birthday gift .
It will be really sweet and you two will surely become closer .
In addition , social network sites can help you keep in touch with friends living very far away .
I met some Canadian friends in Egypt .
Without facebook , we might have lost contact .
However , thanks to facebook , I can still keep in touch with them and find out what they were doing recently as if we were living close to each other .
The disadvantages of social network media are quite undeniable .
Research shows that people will unconsciously hide his or her real thoughts when he or she says or posts something that will be exposed to the public .
This means that one can not know another 's true thoughts and personality just by reading things that he or she puts on social media .
It will make him or her quite upset when they communicate in real life .
In addition , with all those " nice " guys around on the social network website , one may neglect the people surrounding them but just communicate with friends on facebook .
Two people sitting next to each other , seldom talking , but just looking at their cellphones is a common scene .
This kind of behaviour is not good for people 's psychological health according to research .
Cyber communication is quite different from face to face communication and people who depend on cyber communication too much will not get used to real life communication .
In addition , cyber relationships do not always work in real life .
With no close relationships in real life but only close cyber friends , one is more likely to feel lonely because the physiological need of human beings is to feel a bond with others .
With people trying to become better than others , social network sites have now become a place to show off .
Some people will post pictures of their expensive purchases or the oversea places of interest they have been on their social network and get a feeling of satisfaction by doing so .
It is a mental inadequacy and may trigger people , especially teenagers , to become materialistic .
Last but not least , with all kinds of personal information on one 's social network page , it is covenient for criminals to make use of this information to commit a crime .
Above all , social network sites are like a double-edged sword and people can only take advantage of it by avoiding the possible disadvantages such as by putting less personal information on their facebook page .
The modes of communication have been changing over the years , from letter writing to social networking .
This phenomenon is caused by rapidly changing technology , which has made communication faster than ever before .
Today , social media sites , such as Facebook and Twitter , are relatively common within contemporary society and people can communicate with each other , online or offline , on these social networking platforms .
They can even make new friends with similar interests on these platforms , which enables almost everyone to connect in many parts of the world .
However , critics may argue that with the existence of social media , websites have reduced physical human interactions , as people prefer to sit in front of a computer instead of going out and meeting new friends .
This essay will discuss both the benefits and downsides of using social media in contemporary society .
Nowadays , social media are able to disseminate information faster than any other media .
About 50 % of people who learn about breaking news do so from social media .
This is due to people spending comparatively more time on social networking than time on reading newpapers .
Furthermore , with the current technology , smartphones are able to get access to social media sites which has made them easier for consumers to use .
Hence , social media has benefited the masses by equipping them with a powerful tool to disseminate information almost immediately to the people around them .
However , critics may argue that not all information or news disseminated is reliable .
There might be false information or hoaxes spreading around on social media .
For example , in 2012 , there were false rumors of fires , shootouts , and caravans of gunmen in a Mexico City suburb , which had spread through Twitter and Facebook .
This caused panic among the people who flooded the local police department with numerous phone calls , resulting in the temporary closure of schools .
The spreading of false information can be a potential psychological threat to everyone , given that social media can disseminate information at a relatively fast speed .
Nevertheless , there are cyber police who roam these social networking platforms to prevent these hoaxes spreading around .
But there will still be unreliable sources spreading false information on social media sites despite high security to control almost every social networking movement .
Social media are able to improve relationships and make new friends , provided that there is mutual trust and mutual understanding between both parties .
Many teenagers today claim that they are able to keep in touch with their friends through social media , regardless of their location .
In the past , people used to write letters to their friends and it took a relatively long time to send the letter over .
Therefore , with the help of technology , people are able to catch up with each other conveniently .
Furthermore , it is easier to make new friends who have similar interests or hobbies .
However , in order for people to maintain their relationship as well as make new friends , mutual trust and understanding is required between both parties .
It might not be accurate to judge the other party 's feelings over social media as one may cover up their emotions while on social media .
In addition , there are also chances for people to miscommunicate with each other as they can not sense the tone of the other party over social media platforms .
This will result in unnecessary conflicts between two parties over miscommunication .
But , if there is trust and mutual understanding on social media , it will be ideal for people to improve relationships and make new friends .
In conclusion , social media in contemporary society are able to help one improve relationships and make new friends , as well as disseminate information efficiently to the masses .
However , there are risks of false information and chances of miscommunication .
Nevertheless , the advantages of social media will benefit the masses if the negative aspects can be carefully taken care of .
All-in-all , social media is the product of rapid technological advancement and there is more to come in future .
Advantages : Social media sites have greatly eased long distance communication and interaction due to their accessibility and convenience .
In the globalised and interconnected world of today , Twitter and Facebook are now the mainstream platform for social interaction .
Being just a touch away from any media/electronic device , one can easily interact and communicate with his friends without much hassle .
Thus , long distance relationships or friendships can be maintained and keeping in touch with your circle of friends has been made much easier .
With the sharing of personal photos , posting of statuses of one 's personal feelings or experiences and being able to reply to these posts , human interaction has become more engaging and expanded with ease .
Introverts or those who were too shy to communicate with their friends are now able to do so in the form of words via social media platforms .
Thus , socialisation can occur seamlessly and effectively with the utilisation of such social media platforms . Meet-ups and appointments are no longer a barrier for humans to contact and communicate with one another , making human interaction possible at one 's own convenience .
Society will adapt to such phenomenon as physical interaction is transformed into cyber interaction .
With the frequent usage and reliance on the social media and the Internet , a society that socialises online will be more advanced and adapted to a highly connected world .
This will greatly help a society to progress rapidly .
Disadvantages : One of the main concerns of using social media platforms to communicate is credibility .
The certainty of what is being shared or expressed can not be proven physically as media limits this physical interaction , except when using a webcam to chat .
We can not be truly certain about the reliabilty or truth of some posts or information we receive through the Internet .
We may , in actual fact , be communicating with a hoax Facebook account of a cyber friend , which we assume to be real but in reality , is a fake account .
Photos and information retrieved from their profile page may be fabricated to suit certain personal agenda .
Thus , the lack of face-to-face human contact through social media restricts actual interaction which can be stimulated by the media .
Although emoticons can be used to show certain emotions , this differs from the real authentic emotions of your friends when you observe them through their body language and their facial expression .
The danger of such media socialisation is the uncertainty of such communication due to a lack of physical interaction .
Furthermore , this lack of physical interaction affects human inter-personal behaviour since communication is made through social media instead of meet-ups .
This lowers the experience of human ability to interact with one another which can adversely shape one 's behaviour .
The lack of exposure to real life interaction with humans will not create the confidence and skills needed for one to interact seamlessly and effectively with others .
Therefore , for an effective and efficient society , there is a need to have a balance of both social media interaction and face-to-face human interaction with people .
Nowadays , since people can even use their phone to read news , anyone can be the first to witness what is happening in the world .
People use Twitter to follow the artist or celebrity they love and Facebook to see what their friends ' recent activity is .
Nevertheless , they still use phones to make normal calls and messages .
Not only phones do the jobs for them , but also devices like personal computers , laptops , tablets , and many other devices which are able to connect to internet .
It is obvious to see that the internet saves people 's time and also connects people globally .
Several arguments have been made saying social media actually has some inevitable disadvantages .
People can only use electical devices to access internet .
Whenever they need to use social media , they have to use a phone or the internet .
Generally , people need their eyes to look at the display screen of their phone or computer and fingers to manipulate the corresponding device .
As a result , their eyes and hands will be preoccupied which means they have lost the tools they need for face-to-face communication .
This can be easily seen in restaurants or cafes nowadays .
for example , a family of four having dinner in a restaurant without any chatting , because they are holding and looking at their display screens with one hand while the other hand is holding a fork .
A group of friends having tea in a caf  similarly not chatting because they do not know what to talk about so instead press on their display screens .
Children nowadays do not know what neighbourhood games are or who is sitting beside them ; all they know is pressing icons on the screens .
These are some concrete examples of how social media reduces face-to-face human contact .
When people get used to using social media to contact other people , what will happen is that their interpersonal communicating skills will degrade and eventually disappear .
Firstly , they will lose the courage to meet strangers , let alone the courage to talk .
Also , they will not have enough experience to communicate with people in person and so will not be trained in their conversation skills .
To sum up , social media helps them do their jobs but indirectly affects their interpersonal skills .
Social media does have some other advantages besides the general benefits for human beings .
First of all , people save money by using the internet to contact other people and read the news .
A father may be able to make a call to his daughter who is in another country via social media software instead of making an international call which costs a lot to the average family .
He can even talk to his daughter face-to-face using a video call via the internet .
Secondly , people make friends all over the world and want to update their friends with their recent activity easily .
Someone who is going travelling for months can easily tell all of his friends about his activity .
When one of his friends , who is not aware of this , fails to contact him via telephone calls , he might instead be able to get his whereabout using social media .
These are the advantages that save time .
To conclude , social media benefits people in several ways but at the same time harms people .
People should avoid the misuse of social media and use it in the proper way .
With the aid of social media , people bond globally , information flows rapidly , and humans live happily .
All of us are living in the age of technology .
Have you ever wondered why we use these tools to connect ourselves with other people ?
It started with the invention of technology which has evolved tremendously over the past few decades .
In the past , we travelled by ship and now we can use airplanes to do so .
In the past , it took a few days to receive a message as we had to post a letter but now , we can use e-mails , which stands for electronic message , to send messages to our friends or even use our handphone to send our messages .
From the example that I mentioned earlier , we can see that the distance between us and our loved ones is getting further apart .
This is because through the convenience of technology such as airplanes , some of our friends might be going overseas to continue their studies .
Thus , this makes Twitter and Facebook become one of the mediums of communication that we need .
Nevertheless , everything in life has positive and negative effects .
This is applicable to these social media sites .
The next two paragraphs will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our society .
With the help of social media tools , we can stay in contact and keep ourselves up-to-date with our family and friends even when we are away from them .
Social media sites such as Facebook allow us to share our pictures or even chat online with our parents while we are overseas .
This helps parents communicate with their children and know what kind of activities that their children do when they are overseas .
Social media is beneficial as it connects you and your loved one even when you are separated by distance .
It might not be able to replace the joy that you have when you are with your family , but it could help to reduce the sadness of being away from your family .
As I mentioned in the beginning , there are also disadvantages to social media tools .
One of them is that they reduce the level of concentration , especially among youngsters .
This is because it is part of everyone 's habit to check their facebook page as their friends may post something new every second .
Thus , you can see some students browsing facebook while attending lectures .
This means that the students are not concetrating when they are supposed to .
As a result , it could affect their lives and studies .
This could then lead to stress as these students are not able to cope with their studies because they were distracted .
In my opinion , every individual has to take responsibility for their own lives by making the right decision .
There are advantages and disadvantages to using social media sites , however in this case , striking a balance between social media and life is the most important thing to do .
Nowadays , the use of social media platforms is commonplace in our lives .
In this increasingly globalised world , such platforms even enhance and complicate the links between indivduals in the world .
Thanks to them , people can get to know one another online , without having to travel to meet up for business purposes or personal reasons .
However , social media are also bringing about some social changes whereby such virtual worlds are overtaking the real-life world , resulting in some negative impacts in an individual 's daily life and therefore becoming a large problem in society as a whole .
As people spend more and more time on such social media sites , the importance of face-to-face human contact has decreased .
As people feel more confident online where they do not have to face someone in real-life on the spot , they feel more comfortable and thus prefer communicating online .
This results in a lack of interpersonal skills in an individual , especially young students as they always have the option to turn their back to real-life and go online .
This becomes a huge problem when they have no choice but to face things in real life .
As they are so used to having an online avatar , they may lose their self-identity in real life and may not understand how to interact with people in real-life .
Another problem with social media is that the benefits of investing such enormous time and energy are not reflected as something positive to the users .
The reason why it is so addictive is that the more people get into social media , the more they seek attention from their friends .
However , such sparks of sudden attention are extremely short-lived and thus do not add any value or meaning to the user 's life .
Also , according to research , it has been proven that users feel sadder after using Facebook and this is because users unknowingly compare their lives with other people 's lives .
But seriously , most people only post the happiest moments in their lives .
Social media definitely has some other strong benefits that make the users stay ; namely the capacity to connect people .
Indeed , I myself use Facebook just for the friends ' contacts that I want to keep .
However , friendship in such a virtual world is so superficial and is not so relevant to real-life .
Also , as numerous profit-driven companies realize the high human traffic on such social media sites , they make it as a pond , to fish the customers by uploading many advertisements .
Furthermore this also possibly triggers privacy issues as Facebook allows some profit-driven companies to have access to information on the users .
As this happens , users are more and more prone to possible fraud .
Social media sites are at their peaks at the moment , however I believe that when people realize that such sites are not making them better people in real-life , they will not indulge in it as much as they do now .
The users , soon , will realise that they do not need such social media sites to keep in contact with the their friends because , if they really need somebody , they can reach their friends no matter what .
We think we are all connected through all sorts of social media , but are we really connected or are we falling apart ?
Social media sites like Facebook and Twitter were born with the intention of connecting people from around the world .
The idea seemed great , and nowadays most people , even the older generation , have at least one social media platform like Facebook .
Parents are now the " friends " of their kids , and they can now " follow " their kids more closely in real time .
People post their random thoughts or daily activities via Twitter and post different kinds of photos on Facebook frequently to connect with their so-called friends .
However , as we tend to spend too much time on these and have significantly reduced face-to-face human contact , this eventually affects our interpersonal skills .
First and foremost , I would like to share the advantages of using such social media in my daily life .
As a student , I tend to meet lots of people from different backgrounds and in different settings .
We may meet only once but we exchange our contact numbers as well as facebook accounts in order to keep in touch .
Unlike just keeping contact numbers that we may never call , social media is a great way for friends from different fields or even from different parts of the world to be connected .
Within clicks , we could check our friend 's profile and read his/her updates .
Alternatively , we could update our profile by posting on the wall and our friends could read the newsfeed .
This allows friends who may not have the time for a meet-up to still be connected in a way .
Not only that , new friends can be easily met through such online platforms .
Hence , our social circle is indeed expanding .
Nonetheless , what seems to make us connected can be the reason we fall apart .
The obvious disadvantage to using social media is the reduction of face-to-face contact .
This subsequently leads to poor interpersonal skills that inhibit the growth of our real social circle .
For example , we only tend to send birthday wishes when Facebook promts us " Today is someone 's birthday " .
Otherwise , we may have just forgotten our friend 's birthday .
We used to send cards during festive seasons like Chinese New Year , and it feels so good to write one and of course receive one with stamps on it .
Those times are gone and now we do mass sending so the receiver may feel less special from such online wishes .
As time passes , we may have more " friends " on our list , but the meaning of friends needs to be redefined .
In a nutshell , every sword has two edges .
The users of social media sites need to strike a balance between the real world and the virtual one .
We should maximize the benefits of such platforms but must be careful of its impacts on the actual life that we have .
Ultimately , the best way to enhance interpersonal skills is still through face-to-face meetings , but social media sites are the tools to enhance them .
Nowadays , social media sites are commonly used in society .
I believe 80 percent of people use social media sites .
These sites play a role of connecting people around the world .
They consist of the function of connecting , sharing , interacting and advertising .
However , there are also some disadvantages to social media which concern society .
Therefore , this article is written to explain the pros and cons of using social media in our daily lives .
First , with the function of social media sites being to connect people , everyone is able to interact and communicate with friends and families , or even strangers , without any time and place constraints .
Through social media sites , we can chat with our friends who stay in Europe and New Zealand .
There are over a thousand miles between Singapore and these two countries .
However , we are able to chat with our friends without travelling to these countries .
It saves a lot of time and money as well as strengthens our relationship even though we stay in different places around the world .
Besides that , businesses can also use the convenience of social media sites , such as Facebook chat or Skype , to facilitate meetings with parties of project from around the world .
Substantial cost is saved without the need for tiring travel from one point to another .
With the huge amount of cost savings , this capital can be utilized in other sectors which benefit the company more and boost the company 's profit .
However , there are always two sides to a story .
Some scholars argue that the use of social media reduces face-to-face connection between humans .
Since ancient times , humans have interacted with others face to face .
Without facial expressions , it is easier to misunderstand the intention of speakers .
This is why facial expressions are one of the most important elements in social learning .
In addition , " social media sites affect writing skills " ; that is the point of view of society .
Based on a statistical report , the more writing skills will be reduced , the more time spent on social media sites .
I believe most of us have had the experience of suddenly forgetting how to write a word that we should know .
Auto-correction software is so effective when using electronic device that we did not realize the importance of writing .
Writing is an essential skill that allows a person to express their own feelings and opinions .
Privacy is a word that has become popular in the past few decades .
Humans have their own rights and privacy .
I believe that most of us agree with these terms .
However , there is news that social media sites leak users ' information to companies for cash reimbursement .
Everything we type in social media sites is recorded on the server and then transferred to the companies for spying and advertising .
Although it looks ungoverned and it is your own space to speak and do anything you want , you are actually wrong .
You are not only controlled by government laws , but also spied upon by the government .
In conclusion , everything has two sides .
It is our responsibility to identify the advantages and disadvantages of social media sites .
To utilize the technology well , we should make an effort to not only balance the pros and cons but also lengthen the pros and shorten the cons .
Thus , the new technology will be able to bring a prosperous future for us and the next generation .
With the spread of advanced technology , social media sites are becoming more and more popular .
Getting connected on social media such as facebook and twitter has become a main trend nowadays .
With this situation , both the advantages and disadvantages of using social media apply to our daily life .
On one hand , it is obvious that many advantages have been brought to our lives .
Social media provides people with the opportunity to get in contact with each other any time , any place .
Whether we are at home or at school , at work or on a holiday , we are able to communicate and interact with our friends .
Even when people are thousands of miles apart , social media makes it possible to interact by means of written comments .
When our phones are out of battery , we can also use social media to get in contact with our friends .
Some people who try to talk in public can also actively take part in group chatting via social media .
Besides , we can make more friends from such interactions when our friends also bring their friends in .
Therefore , the popularity of social media sites has made it more convenient for people to update friends ' statuses and contact friends more frequently .
On the other hand , we need to consider the influence of social media .
There are still many disadvantages to using social media .
Firstly , interpersonal skills may be affacted by the reduction of face-to-face human contact .
While social media brings convenience to people 's lives , people are more and more willing to use social media for chatting instead of face-to-face chatting which has a time and place requirement .
People who are not good at public speaking may be more reluctant to talk to people , so their interpersonal skills will never improve in this situation .
Secondly , people 's over-addiction may avoidably , to some degree , exacerbate social alienation , and this kind of alienation causes some social media users to suffer from an over-dependence on virtual social networking .
More and more networking has been transferred to the internet from real life .
There is a potential danger for teenagers who are growing with social changes to get hurt .
Thirdly , a lot of luxury living standards as well as other show-off situations may make people 's daily lives more and more extravagent , which is not an accurate growing social trend .
Lastly , it is easy for people to waste a lot of time using social media .
Again , there is a trend for them to suffer from social media addiction and their studies and work may be greatly influenced .
Since we can see both advantages and disadvantages of using social media , and we can not deny the huge benefits that have been brought to us , this main trend of using social media may last for a long time .
Therefore , every time we use social media , we should take both sides into consideration and try to avoid being affected by the disadvantages .
Only by absorbing the essence and discarding the dregs can we make better use of social media .
In the technological age of today , experts keep producing inventions that are meant to make life easier .
Geographical and transportation borders are no longer a problem because communication and information technologies have been continuously enhanced .
The telephone was perceived as the biggest innovation ever when Alexander Graham Bell first introduced it .
However , since the internet was invented , the telephone has started to give way to social media sites .
Many advantages are given to the users of social media sites .
Let us take Facebook and Twitter for example , two of the most famous social media sites .
Through Facebook , peope are able to maintain relationships with their old acquaintances .
This benefit can not be obtained by telephone or mail because people 's particulars and addresses change from time to time . In contrast , on Facebook , people can keep in contact with old friends just by using their name and photo , for example , as the identifier .
Facebook is a combination of a message and chatting service , personal profile , media and sharing platform , and other entertainment add-on ( i.e .
social games ) , which allows users to communicate with people in remote places and also update and express themselves at the same time .
Twitter , which has a more simplified functionality compared to Facebook , gives greater benefit if used as an information sharing platform .
Twitter only allows users to give updates that are limited to short sentences in order to spread the word faster .
For Facebook , a more comprehensive way of sharing is offered since multiple photos and videos can be uploaded , long notes can be published , even documents and data can be shared through Facebook nowadays .
These advantages also come in handy as most of these social media sites are accessible through mobile applications on our smartphones .
Despite the luxury that is offered by social media , there are also harmful side effects which people may not realize beforehand .
Research shows that the frequency of face-to-face meetings of people who are addicted to social media sites has been decreasing .
The consequence is that their interpersonal skills are affected .
People can think while typing and prepare what they want to say , but in face-to-face communication , every word that comes out of your mouth may be not well ordered .
This skill requires practice and can not be done completely through social media .
There is a situation where a family is having dinner together in a restaurant , but everybody is busy with their own gadget , posting pictures on Facebook , updating their status on Twitter , or even chatting with friends .
Social media serves a purpose to bind people in spite of their geographical location but it does not mean that you should neglect the people around you .
This is related to the interpersonal skills that were mentioned before , that can decrease if we get used to facing our gadgets and not human beings .
Another disadvantage that affects other people is that by only showing a selected part of our lives , we build " false images " of ourselves in public .
We tend to only share our happy moments on social media .
Because of this , other people start to think that our lives are full of happiness with no problems at all .
Other people are then influenced by us and tend to do the same .
As a result , some people may think lowly of themselves which may lead to depression and mental disorder .
It also reduces our sympathy .
This is a serious social problem which affects a lot of people .
As explained above , modern and sophisticated technology does not always have advantages .
There are a lot of disadvantages that people may not realise .
It is up to people 's discretion and comprehension to decide which side they want to take .
So we should never forget to think of and calculate the benefits and losses of every decision that we make .
Nowadays , advancements in technology have improved the lives of many people .
In most countries , there is an emergence of social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter .
Many people think that social media sites will benefit the communication between people while others argue that they have a negative impact on society .
One of the advantages of social media sites is that they can connect us more closely than before .
In past decades , when social media sites were not yet fully developed , people connected with others who lived far away by using a phone , or even a letter .
However , calling a person by phone or writing them a letter required some cost , and sending a letter to a person who lived far away , especially in villages , takes much time .
The appearance of social media sites caused those problems to be solved .
People connecting through social media sites spend no money on the communication , and it only takes one or a few seconds for the message to arrive .
Therefore , the advantages of social media sites not only save time and money , but also provide convenience for many people .
Moreover , this also provides an alternative way for people to contact a person whom they have not seen for a very long time , such as their friends from primary school and secondary school .
After we graduate from school , we will probably lose contact with some of our friends .
Some of them may change their phone numbers and addresses , and we are not able to find them by phone or by letter .
If phone or letter is the only way to contact them , we would probably not be able to find them .
Facebook and Twitter can serve as an alternative route to make the connection between us and our old friends .
Hence , social media sites serve as a platform for the connection .
All things with benefits also have their disadvantages .
Thus social media sites also have some negative impacts on people and society .
The advancement of social media sites means that people rely on them so much that some of them prefer using social media to contact each other instead of talking to each other face to face .
Many people argue that this is the most serious problem brought about by social media sites .
The use of social media sites indirectly causes a reduction in face-to-face human communication in real life , which in turn causes the loss of interpersonal skills for many people .
As we all know , interpersonal skills are essential for us to communicate with each other and to present our views and ideas .
The loss of interpersonal skills results in the inability of a person to present their ideas clearly .
As a result , their ability to compete in society will gradually decrease .
In conclusion , social media sites have both positive and negative consequences for people and society .
As a part of this modern society , we should learn to distinguish between the good and bad effects brought about by the advancement of technology , and also learn to avoid the disadvantages and maximize the benefits of those sites .
With the advancement of technology in recent years , the need to keep in touch with people and the latest news has become a tremendous demand .
Some famous examples would be social media sites like Twitter and Facebook .
With an increasing user base of more than a billion users from all over the world , social media sites have clearly demonstrated their success in playing an important role in our lives .
However , there are arguments that social media brings a reduction to face-to-face human contact , which in turn affects our interpersonal skills .
Let us examine the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily lives and society .
First and foremost , all social media sites are free .
All users need is an internet connection and an email account , so anyone can make a Facebook or Twitter ID to start their journey in social media .
Secondly , it helps people to keep in touch with one another .
Finding old friends through Facebook , for example , is easier than asking people in real life .
Social media helps to reduce the hassle of geographical distance and brings people closer .
Thirdly , social media sites keep us up-to-date with the latest news and updates from almost anywhere in the world , all with just a click on the refresh button .
Last but not least , social media sites also bring people together by allowing us to create our own groups , pages or sites to share our hobbies , interests and studies in particular subjects .
Hence , it is undeniable that these sites play an important role in our global inter-connected world .
However , social media sites also have a negative impact on human .
It is undeniable that social media becomes more addictive when we spend more time socialising and interacting virtually .
If we spend the majority of our time on sites like Facebook or Twitter , they will affect our daily work productivity and performance .
In the corporate world , employers often block social media networks to prevent their employees from spending their office time on personal leisure instead of concentrating on their work .
Using text-messaging language as an informal way of communicating on social media networks will also have a negative impact in the long term .
The more time we spend on these sites , the less time we spend on face-to-face interaction with one another .
Hence social media reduces not only the number of valuable interactions between humans , but also the time we spend away from our computer screens or mobile phones .
In addition , there are also false reports and fake IDs on both social media sites , such that people use fake IDs to insult or harass someone , like in the case of Heather Chua , which occurred recently on Facebook .
These malicious comments often go viral and have a strong negative effect on the real user in real life , which might make them unwilling to interact with others in real life .
In conclusion , everything has positives and negatives ; it depends how we exploit them .
With the current booming technology , it is natural that people become more technology-savvy and want to spend more time interacting with each other through social media sites , however this does not mean that we should neglect face-to-face human interaction as it plays an even more important role in our lives .
As more and more social websites such as Twitter , Facebook and Weibo have become ubiquitous , seamless and imperative in our lives , people may worry about the younger generation having problems with face-to-face communication skills .
However , I believe that the benefits brought by these online chat rooms tremendously outweigh the negatives .
Social media enables us to explore the world far away without paying expensive airplane tickets and sparing a one-week holiday .
The convenience is beyond description .
With a small smart phone or a computer at school , at work or at home , we can easily make friends worldwide with a 'click ' and get to know about their life through having conversations with them and reading their blogs , photos and status .
Compared to face-to-face interaction , online conversation makes it easier for strangers to communicate .
Since some information is already present on their home page , it is also easier to find some common topics to talk about .
Moreover , people usually like to boldly share their real feelings online as if their masks in reality had been taken off .
This was indicated in a report done by Boston University in 2012 , which found 80 % of information posted online was true while a person may like it 3 out of 10 times in real life .
This shows that a facebook friend may know more about you than your close friend who does not have a facebook account .
That is because we act who we really are in reality but have no reason to do so in an online virtual world .
Although sometimes the genuine sharing of information may be inappropriate or even harmful , such as the prevalent usage of vulgarity or demoralising comments , we can minimize those repercussions through strict regulations of content online .
Another advantage of social media is in aiding the spread of democracy .
People around the world can easily share their thoughts about their governments .
This eliminates the incomplete information disadvantage for some remote rural regions where people are less aware of what actually is happening around them .
One example is the 2012 riots that happened in Egypt and Zambia .
The idea of searching for democracy passed from Egyptians to people in Zambia quickly through the use of social media .
However , as the government controls most of the media,
social media may be the tools of their campaign used to manipulate the thoughts of the public .
For example , in the 2012 general election in Singapore , Dr Tan Chee Keong made use of facebook to spread his campaign videos to the public .
Because of this , social media is still a much fairer and more transparent online platform for the public to share ideas compared to other traditional medias .
Intensive use of social media does reduce the time people spend in face-to-face communication .
It is commonly seen in a food court or restaurant that a group of people sit together around a table , but each of them have a cell phone in their hands .
They are too busy with their too many virtual friends such that some of them neglect the feelings of their real-life friends .
In this case , I have to say that to err is human .
What we can do is to educate the public about the importance of their friends by their side and teach them to manage their time well .
In conclusion , the use of social media has more advantages than disadvantages in our daily lives .
What we can do is to cautiously manage our time spent online and manage our words used online .
With the regulation of governments and relevant authorities , the virtual world would be a better world .
Social media sites ' role in connecting people around the world is undeniable .
Thanks to social media , communication with people all over the world is possible and can be done with ease .
Apart from the ease of communication despite the distance , many other advantages , such as knowledge sharing and trades , have resulted from social media as well .
Nevertheless , with those advantages , some disadvantages may appear , such as a reduction in face-to-face human contact , which affects interpersonal skills , privacy issues , as well as some types of fraud that can be carried out on social media .
Twitter , Facebook and Skype are some social media sites which enable us to keep in touch with our friends or family who are in other cities or countries .
Through these sites , we are able to talk to them , to know what their activities are and who their friends are , etc. From the surface point of view , there is no doubt that these sites help us to have a better relationship with our relatives despite the distance .
The sharing of information can be done faster through social media as well , which is why nowadays , many news publishers make their own social media accounts ; for example Channel News Asia has a twitter account which updates its followers with headline news .
This shows how easily news and information can be shared through social media .
Furthermore , since many teenagers and young adults are fans of social media , this information can reach them easily without them need to watch or listen to the news reports .
Due to the popularity of social media , many people start to do their business via these sites .
More and more advertisements can be found on Facebook ; whether it is our friends who sell their products or professional brands selling their products online , we can get to buy and contact the sellers through these sites , which can be considered an advantage for us , the buyers .
However , is it the same when we keep in touch with someone virtually compared to when we meet them personally ?
I do think there is difference that I believe many of us will agree on .
When we write or communicate virtually , we can hide our true feelings and may not act ourselves since we do not want the other party to judge us .
Other than that , sometimes the message of one party can not be understood properly by the other since the communication is done through written language , and thus the 'tone ' of the message sent may be different .
Many people are very brave in telling people their opinions online but in real life , some of them can be very shy and not outspoken at all .
This will lead to bad interpersonal skills as well as a trust problem .
Nowadays we can not really trust new people whom we met on social media since we will never know whether they are even 'real' .
Some people fake their identities on media sites so that they can meet more people and some may even cheat others .
In addition , privacy issues have become more commonplace nowadays since some people do not realize that they must actually share some information that they were not willing to share in the first place .
Therefore , while social media sites undoubtedly have benefits in our life , we should consider their drawbacks and thus use them wisely so that we can gain more of their benefits , minimising the disadvantages in the smallest way possible .
It is a common scene that almost everyone on public transport is looking at their phone or wearing a pair of headphones in this modern society today .
Not only one , but in many developed and developing countries can the same picture be seen .
Some say that it is a necessary step for human evolution .
Social media sites like Twitter and Facebook are popular among people because they allow them to connect to others even from different countries .
They also bring many negative effects such as a loss of face-to-face communication skills which are important in the work place .
This essay will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily life .
One of the significant advantages of using a popular social media site is that people can reach other easily , even if they have not had contact for a long time .
In this fast paced and competitive world , people may not be able to keep in touch with others .
With the help of social media sites , people are able to upload their new discoveries and funny stories and can be updated with new information from their friends .
Personally , as I am studying overseas , a busy study life keeps me from contacting my old friend .
Using a common social media site with my friends helps me to check what their statuses are nowadays .
Hence I am able to easily find a common topic when I contact them .
In Singapore , many Malaysians cross the sea to work here .
Many of them are busy in work and are separated from their children .
One of the managers in my workplace is in the same situation .
After my manager taught her mother how to use Facebook , she was able to upload video clips of her grandchild .
Therefore my manager would not miss any moments of her daughter 's growth .
Social media sites are also a very useful tool for people to start a new friendship or relationship .
People with the same preferences can connect or get closer .
It is easier for people to approach others after knowing this information .
Students can exchange their studying experiences even if they are in different countries .
People are able to share their cultural experiences or pretty photos online , therefore others can spread the joy with them .
Thus I believe that social media sites are one of the most useful tools to help people know each other better .
However , social media sites are a double-edged sword ; they also have some negative effects on our daily lives .
One of the disadvantages that concerns many people is that people lose interest in face-to-face communication .
Many people like to use language to disguise themselves , and lose confidence when they talk to each other .
Although not everyone is good at public relations even without the existence of social media sites , we can not deny that they do affect some people in their ability for interpersonal skills .
In conclusion , the shadow always exists when there is light .
We should take advantage of the inventions we create and try to avoid the negative effects .
Social media sites are supposed to be a very useful and convenient tool to use that brings people together in this globalised world .
The use of social media has largely influenced our way of communicating with one another .
Online friends become real life friends and real life friends communicate with one another online .
Social media has profoundly changed our way of exchanging information and interpersonal relationships .
There are advantages and disadvantages to this change .
Social media has reshaped the way of communication .
In real life , we communicate with one another as equal participants .
We share ideas and stories and forge friendship based on mutual respect .
However , communication on social media is largely based on " broadcasting and listening " .
When we use facebook and post pictures and statuses .
We are actively presenting fa  ades of our lives in front of others .
We tend to post only the pictures with the best looks or statuses that are funny .
We broadcast these facades to others .
The images we choose to present are carefully considered .
The audience is not some specific person , but everyone we might know , or even the entire world .
There is an element of attention-seeking rather than expressing one 's true opinion on social networks .
On the other hand , the viewers are not the listeners .
They are just scrolling down pages and pages of pictures and statuses and see one which they might think is funny .
It is not the broadcasters themselves they care about , but the content .
This type of communication does not help in forging interpersonal relationships .
In real life , establishing friendship requires an all-round understanding of one another and caring for one another .
The latter requires face to face interaction where we can show our emotions to the other .
One can not truly understand a person by only stalking their facebook page where they carefully choose what to present .
One can not truly show their emotions to another by texting some = ) signs .
The broadcasting and viewing model is not good for forging relationships .
However , it is good for sharing information .
On social media , everyone is a broadcaster and a viewer .
With my social network account , I seldom read newspapers or go to news websites anymore , because I can easily read them in the statuses of my friends .
If I am interested in politics , I can just follow some politics newspapers or public figures .
I get news for sales , clothes and cosmetics from my friends .
If some of my friends have a horrible taste in clothes and they post them often , I can simply block them .
Information gets circulated .
The most popular information gets circulated the most so I seldom miss it .
Social networks play a role in providing and also filtering information .
This saves a lot of time for me in reading newspapers and watching TV .
Personally , I feel more at ease on social media .
From the above two points of view , I think social media could forge more interest-based friendships .
With the help of social media , I became real life friends with those from online forums whom I share the same interest with .
I also discovered some of my friends ' interests were common with my own so that talking to one another is much more about life , study , friends , etc .
The communication does not focus on how we feel or each other , but whatever is interesting , or the content .
In this case , interpersonal skills are not as important because our goal is not to impress somebody , but to get the information that we are both interested in .
In conclusion , I think social media has reshaped interpersonal relationships from a more human-based friendship that requires sharing and caring between friends , to a more information-based friendship that requires a mutual interest .
There are advantages and disadvantages , however whether it is good or bad , we are still not sure .
It is just different .
Advantages and disadvantages of using social media in daily life
People that live in the modern world really can not live without social media sites like Twitter and Facebook .
Almost all students and young adults possess a Facebook or Twitter account .
It is true that social media enables people to connect with one another more conveniently .
However , it seems that , especially for some of them , sharing some parts of their lives such as videos and photos on social media sites becomes really necessary .
An extremely interesting and ironic phenomenon was discovered when a group of friends met and sat around one table , but none of them were really chatting with one another .
Instead , all of them were more interested in posting pictures of this " cheerful " meeting on their social media sites .
Therefore , there is need to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of social media .
Social media enables people from different parts of the world to communicate with one another .
People used to write letters and send postcards to keep in touch with those who lived far away from them in the past .
It can take a few days or weeks for them to receive the messages .
Nowadays , all people need to do is just type in front of the computer in their own rooms .
And people on the other side will only need a second to receive the message .
Distance and time are no longer a problem , which is convenient especially when instant chat is needed .
However , when people become more and more addicted to this convenience and fail to communicate with people who are close to them , their face-to-face interpersonal skills are lost .
Social media provides people a way of talking and chatting which can never be considered as a way of communication .
When you chat on those media sites , there is no eye connection , no emotion delivery and even expressions are typed in by using some combination of punctuation .
For more convenience , sentences are shortened to simply three or four words such as " lol " ( which means laugh intensively ) and " asap " ( which means as soon as possible ) .
People indeed go to great length to make their words as short as they can .
Yet once they are communicating with people face to face , expressing themselves appropriately really becomes a big problem .
Social media also provides people with a huge trove of information about people and things they are interested in .
For example , on Twitter , it is exciting to follow people that you adore like famous movie and series stars , businessmen and entrepreneurs .
It makes people feel extremely close to their admirers ' lives and works .
Up-to-date news that people care about can be easily obtained when you refresh your social media sites on your smart phones and laptops almost every time at any time .
However , after you have registered on those social media sites which are not reliable , all the information you have filled in may be a weapon against you in the future .
Furthermore , not everyone on social media sites is honest .
The profile picture may not be of the person who that user says he or she really is .
The reason might just be that he or she just wants to " decorate " his or her face .
But there is a possibility that the person on the other side is deceiving you in order to obtain your information to use against you .
No pledge of authenticity risks people 's information and privacy that is shared on social media sites .
To sum up , social media has advantages and disadvantages in people 's daily lives .
It shortens the distance between people from all over the world and makes instant communication possible .
And it becomes more convenient to obtain and update information by using social media .
On the other hand , social media makes people lose their ability to communicate effectively in their real lives and makes people risk compromising their privacy to those whose identity can not be verified on social media sites .
How do social media help change our lives ?
As the development of technology continues , social media becomes more and more significant in the whole world .
Everyone in the world can not stop using it every day to express their feelings or ideas and a load of other stuff which helps their friends understand their lives better .
However , it also raises concerns about whether it brings us more benefits or a human disaster .
Although it helps to connect us with our friends wherever we are , at the same time it reduces the chance for us to talk to our friends face to face , which may affect our interpersonal skills .
Thus , whether there are more advantages or disadvantages becomes a tough question for any human being .
Many people say they support social media since it really helps them to keep up-to-date with what their friends are doing in other parts of the world .
This is especially true for people who are overseas .
For them , social media is the only resource they can trust to find out everything that happens in their home country and to show their lives to their lovers as well .
What 's more , these days , social media plays an important role in spreading information .
Nowadays , people can just easily put their rent information on their facebook account and wait for a response from others who are from different parts of the world , which brings us a huge amount of convenience .
This is quite significant , especially for young teenagers who would rather go to these sites to see the news and find out what happened in the world than read the newspaper every day .
However , there are also a great number of people who are against this technology .
They worry a lot about the negative effects on teenagers who are still developing themselves .
They point out that actually social media reduces the chance for us to talk to people face to face .
The more we care about facebook , the less time we will have to spend with our friends .
Nowadays , it is quite common to see , at some parties , that people prefer more to look at their phones and read posts on facebook if they feel bored .
It makes people worry since if all teenagers continue using social media frequently , they will lose the ability to talk to people .
They will find it becomes difficult for them to find any topics to talk about with other people .
Personally , I strongly agree that social media has more disadvantages than advantages .
Although it is really useful to let other people know we live a good life , it wastes a lot of time as well .
To put it in another way , if we were to reallocate the time we spent browsing social media sites , we may already have finished one book or done other more meaningful things .
We should keep in mind that there are still ways for us to contact our family or friends .
Everything will be bad if we do n't know how to use it wisely no matter whether it is really good or not .
As a result , it is important for people to know that we need to be cautious about the time we spend on social media .
As stated above , I strongly believe that if we can use social media wisely rather than abuse it , we will all live a better life .
The advantages and disadvantages of social media
Nowadays , as technology is becoming increasingly advanced , more and more social media sites are showing up in our daily lives .
You can see people using Facebook and Twitter on their smart phones or ipads on buses or on trains .
Some may say that the appearance of these modern media will reduce the chance for people to communicate face to face .
This essay will illustrate the pros and cons of using social media in modern society .
First of all , social media can make it more convenient for people to make friends and contact each other .
Years ago , before these modern products were popular , the way for people to communicate or contact people far away was still restricted to making phone calls , sending emails or writing letters .
Some of these took a long time while others were not efficient enough for people to get a fast response .
However , social media solves these problems well .
People can contact their friends on the internet and get a reply very quickly .
The communication is also not limited to words .
People can express themselves through pictures or emotions .
People can also get to know their friends ' state and mood by looking at their posts online .
Moreover , people can be made aware of what goes on in social situations and can see the comments online and share their opinions on these websites .
Social media makes people 's lives much more colorful and provide a lot of fun .
However , social media may do some harm to people 's lives .
It may make people spend more time chatting on the internet rather than communicating face to face , such that their interpersonal skills will be badly affected .
Some people spend a lot of time on it and forget their real life .
Actually , I have found that some people are very funny and interesting when I am chatting with them online .
However , they behave quite boringly when I talk to them in real life .
Teenagers develop their interpersonal skills and social skills as they grow up .
If they spend too much time on social media , it may cause some problems for their mental development .
They may feel uncomfortable when they communicate with people face to face .
Some may spend less and less time with their family and not know how to express themselves .
Moreover , the questionable values of some websites may affect teenagers and confuse them .
Some may even do something wrong .
In conclusion , the emergence of social media sites is a double edged sword .
It can make our life simpler .
People can promote their friendship and relationship through social media .
Whereas it can also make people forget to communicate with their family and friends in the real world and negatively affect their interpersonal skills .
Overall , the advantages far outweigh the disadvantages .
So we need to make best use of these social media and make them a fun way of adding some excitement when life is boring .

Remember to send greetings to your friends and family frequently .
Nowadays , with the advancement of technology , it is easy to communicate wherever you are .
The appearance of social media sites has truly connected people . .
People can keep up-to-date with the interesting things that recently happened to their friends just by checking their facebook or other social media sites .
We can not deny that social media sites truly make sure old friends do not lose contact or the chance to communicate with you even if you are in a different country .
However , social media sites truly reduce face-to-face communication which truly affects interpersonal skills .
There are two advantages and two disadvantages to using social media in your daily life .
Firstly , social media sites can closely connect people with their friends and parents .
By typing words and showing pictures , people can express their emotions that they are too shy to express .
For example , on mother 's day , people are shy to say " I love you " to their mothers so they can type it on his or her mother 's facebook page .
Then his or her mother will also know the emotion and feel warm .
On the other hand , when a teenager is studying in a foreign country , the internet is the only way that he can communicate with his parents and friends .
Therefore , social media is truly good for people .
Secondly , social media sites do not only connect people with their friends .
People can also find a lot of information about celebrities on Twitter and Facebook , such as Obama or Bill Gates , and get first-hand study materials on them .
They can learn how these people succeed and they also have the chance to talk with them and get to know these famous persons ' thoughts by using social media .
On the other hand , with the help of social media , some homeless people or someone who needs money to cure a disease can get help from the world quickly because once one person receives the information , he or she will share it to their " friends area " , and then many people will receive it and spread the information to a person who can help .
On the other hand , there are also problems with the population of social media .
Firstly , when people rely on social media to communicate with their friends and parents , they will get accustomed to communicating by typing and not talking .
People may even prefer talk to their friends and meet their friends online and gradually reject face-to-face communication .
Therefore , social media truly limits interpersonal skills such that people lose the chance and the ability to practice talking and strengthening the relationship between himself and his friends .
Secondly , without spoken communication in real life , people lose the ability to see the difference between true and false .
There are many people on social media with beautiful images and good content on their pages , however in real life , they may not have jobs or live poorly .
Teenagers may believe these people and be easily cheated and lose money or even their safety .
Therefore , social media is not safe which is bad for teenagers ' future development .
All in all , the appearance of social media truly helps people a lot in many areas .
However , some disadvantages exist which will affect people to some degree .
Advantages and Disadvantages of Using Social Media in Our Daily life and Society .
Nowadays , with the development of technology and society , social media have become more popular and even important in our daily life .
We communicate with others using social media such as twitter , facebook and microblogging more and more frequently .
There is no need for people to go out of their home to interact with others ; they chat online , share pictures , and tell others what they have done or funny stories .
Although it seems that people build good relationships with others on social media , there are still problems .
People do not know how to talk to others face to face , especially strangers .
Thus , we need to talk about the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily lives and society .
As for the advantages , there are two aspects : convenience in contacting others , and ease in getting to know about others .
One advantage is that it is more convenient to contact others through social media .
In the old days , if someone wanted to tell some important news to someone else who lived far away , he needed to write letters which wastes time .
The long distance and time requirement made sending messages very difficult at that time .
Therefore , people may not have contacted their faraway friends and relatives unless there was something important .
However , people can now contact anyone in the world who can use computer at any time , and there is no time delay .
The other advantage is that it is easier to get to know others through social media .
If there were no social media , it would be difficult for people to get to know strangers .
They may collect information about that person by asking his friends , colleagues or family members .
And the information collected may not be complete or true .
Unlike today , with the help of social media , people can easily get the information they want just by searching online , and can find out what that person did everyday at what time .
As for the disadvantages of social media in our daily lives , these include : wasting time , causing illness related to sitting for long periods in front of the computer , the quick spread of rumors and fake news , and , most importantly , making people lose the ability to confidently talk to others face to face .
It is weird that people sit around a table but all face their phones and do not talk to each other .
If there is a joke on their facebook page , they may talk to others in this way : " hi , look how ridiculous this is " , then they laugh together .
No matter whether it is a party , dinner or just simple get-together , there are always some people bowing their heads and playing on their phones even when their family and friends are in front of them .
In conclusion , there are both advantages and disadvantages to using social media in our daily lives .
People should enjoy the advantages of social media while being aware of the disadvantages and should try their best to prevent the disadvantages from happening to them and their friends and family .
Today 's world is considered to be in the era of social media sites , like Facebook and Twitter , which are actively connecting people around the world .
However , some people worry that social networks can affect interpersonal skills as they reduce face-to-face human contact .
The advantages and disadvantages of using such social media in society are elaborated upon as follows .
Nobody can deny social media 's advantages with the benefits it provides in connecting people regardless of nationality , race , culture and language .
Social media is a trending channel and a suitable means of communication .
Firstly , social media brings convenience to the world .
It has erased the boundaries of distance and time .
No more worries about the time it takes to deliver letters and packages .
Nowadays , thanks to the help of social media , with just one click , you can contact your family and friends wherever you want .
You can share photos , videos and every meaningful experience of your life .
More importantly , it is cheap and easy to use social media .
Secondly , social media networks open the door of opportunities for people due to their great ability to connect .
A lot of fresh graduates can find jobs thanks to Facebook and Twitter .
Young people can widen their relationships , make new friends and learn wonderful things in many parts of the world .
In the business world , social media is a good tool to develop and advertise products and services .
On the other hand , social media also has disadvantages which have worried society recently and made it a controversial phenomenon .
More and more young people tend to live in the social media world most of the time and have little face-to-face human contact , which can affect their interpersonal skills and relationships in their social lives .
First and foremost , we should recognise that the social media world is neither trustworthy nor real .
Anyone can easily make up the personality and characteristics they want .
They can become anyone .
Though social media do create relationships , relationships and friendships are only firm and real if people have gone through experiences and face-to-face interaction together .
There is a story of a girl who lived in the social media world every night for eight years .
In the chat room , she formed a close relationship with eight people .
She talked with them every night , trusted them and shared her life with them .
Then eventually , she discovered that the eight people were one as the person was using eight different identities to chat with her all the time .
Furthermore , the convenience of social media is also its weakness .
A lot of people use their true information on social media sites , which can lead to crimes and deception .
People can use the information to deceive family , friends and banks to do bad things such as blackmail , ATM theft and so on .
Last but not least , social media does affect human interpersonal skills when people increase their time spent on social sites and reject chances to be exposed to daily social life activities as well as interact with people .
Recent research has shown that the more people spend time on social media sites , the less ambitious they become .
As a result , if the situation keeps continuing in this unexpected trend , it will have a bad effect on the young generation .
To put it in a nutshell , everything has its own pros and cons .
So do social media networks .
They are not only convenient and beneficial for connecting people and developing a business , but can also damage people 's relationships and interpersonal skills .
Social media are only beneficial as long as we know how to use them in a correct and suitable way , i.e . with a combination of both social media sites and real life interaction to develop people 's potentials to the fullest .
