Keeping the Secret of Genetic Testing
What is genetic risk ?
Genetic risk refers to your chance of inheriting a disorder or disease .
People get certain diseases because of genetic changes .
How much a genetic change tells us about your chance of developing a disorder is not always clear .
If your genetic results indicate that you have gene changes associated with an increased risk of heart disease , it does not mean that you definitely will develop heart disease .
The opposite is also true .
If your genetic results show that you do not have changes associated with an increased risk of heart disease , it is still possible to develop heart disease .
However , for some rare diseases , people who have certain gene changes are guaranteed to develop the disease .
When we are diagnosed with a genetic disease , are we obligated to disclose this result to our relatives ?
My answer is no .
On the one hand , we do not want this potential danger to impact our families ' lives in frightening ways .
When people in our lives know that we have a genetic disease , their attitudes towards us may be changed , whether caring about us too much or keeping away from us .
And both are not what we want since most of us just want to live normal lives .
Given these concerns , it is very likely that we will be perpetually anxious about these problems .
It is a concern that will be with us during our whole life , because we will never know when the " potential bomb '' will explode .
On the other hand , if there are ways to help control or cure the disease , we can go through the process with support from or in conjunction with the whole family .
For example , if exercising is helpful in curing a potential family disease , we can always look for more opportunities for the family to exercise together .
And we can also monitor the health of all of our family members .
At the same time , we are prepared when we find out other family members have this disease .
Here I want to share Forest 's view on this issue .
Although some people feel that an individual who is found to carry a dominant gene for Huntington 's disease has an ethical obligation to disclose that fact to his or her siblings , there currently is no legal requirement to do so .
In fact , requiring someone to communicate his or her own genetic risk to family members who are therefore also at risk is considered by many to be ethically dubious .
"
Nothing is absolutely right or wrong .
If a certain disease 's genetic test is very accurate and it is unavoidable and necessary to get treatment where others can easily find out , it is OK to disclose the result .
Above all , life is more important than keeping a secret .
Genetic risk has consequences and should not be taken lightly within the family circle .
After all , what affects one family member may or may not affect another , even though the family has a common genetic makeup , shared by either of the parents .
In cases where an individual has found out about a genetic disorder , disclosing this knowledge ( or not ) to his or her relative is solely a personal preference within the individual 's moral system .
The issue on right to know is highly debatable . Although it is a genetic risk , one can not be entirely sure of the origin because genetic information can come from the families of either parents , such as the maternal and paternal uncles , aunts or cousins .
This also means that as soon a person is made aware of his or her genetic profile , he or she concurrently has knowledge about others .
This knowledge may be relevant to them , and vice versa .
An example that may serve as an illustration is breast cancer .
It is hereditary .
Does one who suffered from this disease keep it a secret from their relatives ?
In retrospect , it is also one 's duty to ensure that he or she undergo periodic healthchecks on their own .
Sometimes family structure and cultural beliefs can influence the pattern of communication .
Depending on whom the genetic risk was discovered from , the son or daughter for example , the parents who know about this would decide who is informed and who takes precedence in being 'allowed ' to tell .
For example , within a family , regardless of who had first received genetic information , parents were seen as having the primary responsibility to pass on information to any offspring .
In addition , a woman testing positive for BRCA1 would be expected to allow her brother or sister to disclose such information to a niece or nephew rather than do it herself , although this may be further complicated by an individual 's response to risk information as they may not want to know .
Hence , there is also tension if participants felt that they could neither pass on information to relatives who needed to know ( such as nieces and nephews ) nor persuade those with authority ( the parents ) to do so .
The notion of authority also extended 'vertically ' .
For example , a grandmother may have more authority to pass on information than an aunt , even when she is not at genetic risk herself while the aunt is .
From a practitioner 's perspective these findings are important because social constructs of family and kinship may not be in line with geneticists ' views of family relationships , or about which blood ( or non-blood ) relatives should be informed and by whom ; this is also likely to be dependent on the cultural and ethnic context .
Ultimately , one must bring attention to who may benefit from such information and assist those at risk to make informed decisions about disclosure .
Whose duty it is to inform at-risk relatives or not greatly depends on personal morals and the nature of the risk to them .
People with close blood relationships generally carry similar genes .
In this case , if one of the family members or close relatives is found to carry a genetic risk , it is better for the patient to tell his/her close relatives about the issue and let others know about the risk so that his/her family members are able to perform some daily exercises to prevent the potential disease . Alternatively , they may go to the hospital and check if they also have the genetic risk .
In my opinion , although the annoyance of carrying a genetic risk involves the issue of self privacy , the carrier should be obligated to tell his or her relatives in order for them to prevent getting the potential disease .
I agree with this statement to a large extent .
Focus on the negative side of the announcement of genetic risk first .
Large numbers of patients with the genetic risk would want to keep it as a secret as the genetic risk may indicate a high chance of carrying a certain disease .
Especially for an unmarried young person , if he/she is known to have some genetic risk , there is a strong chance that his/her child would carry the same disease , but it is not absolutely certain .
Therefore , keeping the information secretive to his/her future spouse would help the relationship .
Secondly , announcing the potential risk could scare family members . Although the risk may not be that serious , people would still fear that they would have some potential disease in the future and thus go to the hospital and do additional checks or take more medicine in order to prevent the disease . This would create unnecessary costs to the family .
Furthermore , the announcement of genetic risk would affect relationships with relatives as they might not want to stay too close to the carrier in order to decrease their chance of getting the potential disease .
On the other hand , if the genetic risk is kept secret , it may benefit the carrier to a certain extent and help them maintain privacy , but it has much larger negative impact on the family members and relatives .
First , in the case of marriage , people should be honest and tell his/her spouse they may carry a certain genetic risk that may affect their offspring .
It is better to let the other party know this fact before the baby is born and a certain type of genetic disease is found .
It is better for both parties to be honest .
Secondly , genetic disease has a close relationship with your personal genetics along with your daily habits .
For example , suppose a carrier is told that he/she is at risk of having diabetes .
In this case , the carrier can eat less candies and chocolates to prevent intake of too much sugar , and at the same time , if the carrier tells this information to relatives , it will be useful for them to know that they may have diabetes in the future because of related genes and then they can perform the same exercises to eat less sugar and thus prevent the disease .
Otherwise , if the other parties did not know , they may end up having diabetes in the future without any means for prevention .
In conclusion , we showed that the benefits of informing relatives about genetic risk outweighs the costs .
Therefore , it would be better for the carrier to be obligated to tell the information to the relatives , in order for them to prevent the potential disease through daily exercises .
Among the range of diseases , many of them are caused by genetic reasons .
Genetic disorders may or may not be a hereditary disease and thus it is sometimes hard to find out whether one has these kinds of diseases .
It is a long , on-going discussion about whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives that his or her disease is caused by genetics .
From the legal aspect , the answer is no , but from the ethical aspect , the answer should be yes .
We ca n't make a law to force a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell his or her relatives about his or her genetic problem .
It is immoral and impractical .
Firstly , knowledge of a genetic risk is a private matter .
Protection of privacy is one of the human rights .
If a law requires someone to reveal something private especially when the person is not willing to do so , it is against his or her human rights and it is against the spirit of the law .
If a law requires someone to reveal something private especially when the person is not willing to do so , it is against his or her human rights and it is against the spirit of the law .
The spirit of the law also includes fairness .
What is the basic difference between genetic disorders and other disorders ?
It is unfair to issue a law which only focuses on the genetic disorder .
In addition , it is impractical to make such a law .
A good law should be clear and easy to execute .
However , there are many problems with the execution of a law asking a carrier to tell his or her relatives the cause of his or her diseases .
Firstly , what is the range of the relatives ?
For example , does the carrier only need to tell his or her direct relatives like parents , brothers and sisters , or does he also need to tell relatives like his grandmother 's sister 's son 's daughter 's nephew ?
If you say one only needs to tell direct relatives , it will go against the fairness of the law .
Other relatives may have the same chance of getting the disease .
How can a law made by government exempt such a group of people from preparing to face their potential disease ?
However , from the ethical point of view , the carrier should feel responsible to tell his or her relatives about their genetic disorder .
However , from the ethical point of view , the carrier should feel responsible to tell his or her relatives about their genetic disorder .
By doing this , they may be able to save some of their relatives ' lives .
It is because a carrier with a bad gene may not necessarily have a genetic disease if they can have a healthy lifestyle before the age that the gene 's function becomes stronger .
A typical example is hypertension caused by a genetic disorder .
Hypertension can be caused by genetic problems which make it harder for the carrier to digest the fat and salt in blood .
People usually get this kind of hypertension after they become an adult .
However , if they already know they have a gene that may increase the possibility of hypertension , they can develop a habit of eating less salt and fat to avoid hypertension .
However , if they already know they have a gene that may increase the possibility of hypertension , they can develop a habit of eating less salt and fat to avoid hypertension .
In a nutshell , our society ca n't force a carrier with genetic problems to tell his or her relatives but he or she should be willing to tell his or her relatives about his or her genetic problem .
By doing so , less of his or her beloved ones will suffer from the genetic problem .
In the age of rapid technological advancement , a lot of medical breakthroughs have become possible .
Genetic testing is now an option for people to consider .
It is able to detect illnesses or diseases and even a child 's parentage .
However , it will become a controversial issue as it becomes a dilemma for a carrier of a known genetic risk to inform his or her relatives .
If the knowledge of the genetic risk is shared with family or relatives , they might have a chance to have it in their blood , and then they can take necessary precautions to prevent the disease .
But , if the genetic disease is terminal , most of the relatives will be disheartened upon hearing about it .
Therefore , some carriers may consider keeping it as a secret .
This essay will discuss whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should tell his or her relatives or not .
Some said that the genetic risk that is found in a person should be kept secret because it is considered personal information which should be kept confidential .
Most patients will be depressed after realising his or her condition .
If one has a genetic disease after the test , he or she might not wish to inform the relatives as he might end up disheartening his extended family .
Some will wish to keep it to themselves and hope to ensure that they will not bring any pessimism into their family .
Furthermore , some will wish not to become a burden to anyone as seeking medical attention is relatively costly .
Hence , some see keeping the genetic risk confidential as being considerate .
On the other hand , others may think that it will be considerate to tell relatives because they will have a higher propensity to have the same genetic risk .
Hence , they will be able to seek help from medical specialists to find a cure or to take action to prevent the risk of getting the disease .
Nevertheless , it will depend on the type of genetic diseases , given the context of current medical technology .
For example , breast cancer is a genetic disease and it can be cured if it is caught at an early stage .
Hence , with the knowledge of having a genetic risk , the relatives of the carrier can do a medical check-up at an early stage , which might save them .
In conclusion , it will be considerate to inform relatives of the risk of getting the same genetic disease .
Although there might be a lot of challenges along the way in seeking medical attention , such as financial issues , everyone should be given the right to know their family 's inherited medical conditions .
However , some think that it might be better for those to be ignorant about it and continue to lead a happy life .
In addition , some may think that even knowing about having a genetic risk of the disease will just add on to their misery as there is nothing that they can do about it .
All in all , it depends on the individual and also the nature of the disease , but he or she should be obligated to inform the relatives if there is a possibility of curing or preventing it .
Genetic testing is a personal decision , with the knowledge that there is a possibility that one could be a carrier or not .
Those who are born into a family with a history of genetic disease should be allowed to undergo genetic testing , even if there is no risk at all .
Early pre-examination is healthy as it will cast away unwanted doubts and affect the thoughts of those who are affected .
For a genetic risk carrier , he or she should have a choice with respect to informing his/her relatives .
They should not be forced or obliged to do so , as it may negatively and drastically affect the emotions of the genetic risk carrier .
With respect to this choice , there must be some rules to regulate and exercise the personal freedom of decision making .
If the genetic risk carrier is a minor or a child , then most likely the decision of informing the relative should be made with the consideration of the patients ' parents or legal guardian .
Such patients are still emotionally volatile or they may be unaware of the consequences of such genetic disorders due to their young age .
Furthermore , the act of informing others without the consent from their parents or the patients themselves could harm the psychological state of the affected family .
Thus , much thought needs to be put in by the immediate family as it could cause a stir of unwanted events from the patient or the family members itself .
Some family members may feel hurt , with regard to their family pride or reputation , on having the knowledge of a genetic disorder running in their family .
However , there is a sense of responsibility to inform their relatives since it is a genetic disorder .
There might be a possibility that the genetic disorder could also affect their relatives and any other families within the same family tree .
The importance of informing relatives is vital as it may help to raise awareness and prevention of the genetic disorder .
Also , this information will help their relatives make informed decisions and to similarly undergo genetic testing to determine the outcome .
Thus , having the knowledge that the genetic disorder is benign would ease concerns and anxiety .
And if the results turn out to be otherwise , then the family is prepared emotionally and psychologically for any future outcomes and can aid them in making upcoming decisions .
In addition , the genetic risk carrier would be showered with moral and emotional support from their relatives if it had been made known to them .
Having support from relatives is vital as they ensure the genetic risk carrier that he/she is not alone in facing this illness and it will certainly provide a morale boost as the whole family will be united by the chance that the genetic disorder could be inherited by anyone in the family .
Therefore , the decision to inform relatives of such genetic disorders will be dependent on the situation and background of the affected family , with the freedom of choice given to them to decide whether to inform the others .
A person with a disorder , whether mental or physical , is always easily recognized by his or her family .
When it comes to genetic issues , it is not that simple anymore .
Genetic disorders are inherited generation by generation , but not all of the offspring show the relevant symptoms .
Sometimes a family with a potential genetic disorder risk may not be able to detect the potential harm inside their bodies as none of their members reflect any observable disorder symptoms .
As a result , in the case when one of the members happens to feel uncomfortable or abnormal , he or she should be aware whether the disorder in his or her body is a genetic risk or not .
Afterwards , the carrier will face a serious ethical issue , which is to reveal the problem to his or her relatives or not .
If a child shows disorder symptoms , the parent will be informed by the medics for sure , and then the whole family can stay alert to their bodies ' condition .
On the other hand , if the carrier is an adult , it is a more complex situation since it is his own choice on whether to inform his relatives about the risk .
One may think that if the carrier is a caring person who loves his or her family more than himself , there is no doubt that he or she will tell his or her family about the issue .
Thus , it is the obligation of a family member to protect and take care of the family .
Thinking of this in another way , if a child of the family knows that he could become a genetic risk carrier , and the risk could be inherited by his children in the future , his whole life will be in a dilemma .
And of course , he or she will consider not having any children after getting married , and the same thinking applies to the cousins as well .
As a result , the family stops the moment the adult carrier announces his issue .
In China , the older generation , which has a traditional cultural background , will always think of having more children as well as grandchildren , to make the family larger and stronger .
The reason behind is that , after World War 2 , the population of China decreased dramatically and so the government encouraged the people to have more babies .
During that period , if one of the family members showed symptoms of a genetic disorder , he would fall into an ethical dilemma for sure .
Medical treatment technology during that time was not advanced enough to completely cure him .
He had to choose whether to protect his family or make his family more proliferative with a potential generic risk .
Thus , he would have chosen not to undergo generic disorder testing and let the truth be hidden forever .
This kind of ethical issue can not be judged by others because they will not understand the position and duty of the carrier in the family .
In conclusion , people should think carefully about the consequences of telling the relatives his or her genetic disorder issue .
It is the obligation of a carrier to inform his relatives , but also an obligation of a family member to strengthen the family .
Regardless , if the disorder is unlikely to be fatal or it does not cause any inconvenience to the carrier , revealing the truth is always the right thing to do .
In my opinion , the carrier should tell his or her relatives about it .
One of the reasons why is because as a carrier , he or she needs moral support to go through with this situation .
It will be hard for an individual to deal with the issue on his or her own .
By telling family for their support , they could possibly help with getting alternative solutions to the problem that they are facing right now .
Other than that , I believe that the strong bond we have with our family is the biggest pillar of support for a carrier .
Furthermore , as it is a genetic problem , it will be better for the carrier to inform his or her family as other family members might also experience the same thing .
By making sure that they are aware of this genetic problem , they could have a full check-up for themselves with the hope that they could even prevent it from happening to themselves .
I find that it is important to inform especially if it is contagious ; the carrier could prevent the disease from spreading to others .
For every action there are always pros and cons .
I believe that some of the carriers will choose to not reveal their disease to their family members as they do not want to make them worry and feel uncomfortable or even feel ostracized by them .
Furthermore , as treatment could be very costly , the carrier might not want to be a burden to his or her family .
I can understand how the carrier might feel .
He or she does not want to be a source of unhappiness in the family .
However , we will never know whether these negative effects will happen when the carrier decides to tell his or her family about the condition .
In conclusion , personally I feel that it is better for the carrier to inform his or her family members about the issue .
The carrier should be honest with his or her feelings . I find that it is the right of the family member to know what is going on in his or her life .
If anything wrong happened to the carrier 's life , without informing the family members , it could be a huge regret in their lives if he or she leaves without them knowing about it .
On top of that , it is better to think about solutions to the problem with the family members as there are more heads to think about it rather than thinking and struggling on your own .
In the end , I believe that the support , in terms of mental or even financial , from the family could help the carrier fight against the genetic disease .
For example , there are lots of cancer patients who were given a second choice to live as a normal person as they had a strong support from their loved ones .
In my opinion , as long as we keep our mind healthy and strong , we can fight any disease as it comes to us when we are fragile and weak .
As technology has been advancing , it has reached a stage whereby the advancement triggers some ethical dilemmas in relation to the actual use of the technology .
Genetic testing has been made possible . It has become easy to tell if one is a carrier of a known genetic risk through genetic testing .
If used for a good purpose , it can prevent unnecessary unhappiness , but it can also make the situation worse by revealing who the carrier is , in the family .
The question given is whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives and I think that the carrier should not be obligated to do so because I believe that they have the right not to know .
First , genetic testing is not something that is compulsory .
Of course , some people may do it to make their futures slightly happier . however , the carrier , before testing , can choose not to go through with the test and simply live with the unknowns and accept the facts .
If he chooses to live with the uncertainty of what the gene holds and is willing to accept it , he could do that , and it has been something that was 'normal ' to everyone in the past when genetic testing was not possible .
It could be better for him this way .
Some people might say that this is a form of prevention as it stops the birth of disabled babies that would suffer in real-life .
I personally think this is the right reason for going through with the genetic testing : so that a family who can not afford to have a disabled kid does not have to give birth to their child and make the entire family suffer .
However , I believe that the carrier has the right not to tell anyone but has the responsibility to take an action to prevent any ethical dilemma .
If the result turned out something that the carrier can not accept then it would have been better not knowing the truth .
I believe that even the carrier has the right not to know the truth .
After realizing the he or she is a carrier , the emotional damage would be hard to bear .
It could possibly cause a problem in the family due to that fact and thus create more unhappiness in the family .
Overall , I believe that it entirely depends on the carrier to share the hard facts and face them with relatives , but he has no obligation to tell still .
In fact , I strongly think that the carrier should weigh both the positive and negative consequences of taking the genetic testing and take an appropriate action given the results .
The emotional depression that the carrier might get and the sense of guilt can be more than expected and could be a burden in his mind for the rest of his life .
On the other hand , without knowing about any genetic disorder and accepting that fact , the family will stay positive and work together to overcome the disability .
I think the family will stay mentally healthy as it is , without having emotional stress .
Debates have been around for years on whether a carrier for a known genetic risk is obligated to inform his or her relatives .
Any individual at risk for a disorder has the right to undergo genetic testing , but whether the results should be told to others , especially close family members or relatives , is the topic that is worth discussing .
This is an issue which needs to be addressed as a family-related ethical dilemma is involved .
In this essay , arguments will be presented in support of the view that any carrier of a known genetic risk is obligated to tell his or her relatives .
When we were born , we were surrounded by our family and relatives , with them welcoming us to this new world .
We were crying hard but we were not alone ; it 's our family and relatives that helps us grow up .
Hence , they should be the people we are grateful for and the people we would like to share joy with together .
However , in the case pertaining to any health issue or serious disorders , it may seem like there is no point in sharing , but this involves more than just sharing of bad news .
One definitely has the right to disclose his or her health issues to anyone , but it 's also one 's responsibility to inform the family and close relatives .
As this health issue is related to genetic risk , with emphasis on " genetic " , which highlights the risk of passing down the disorder to the next generation .
Therefore , I would agree that a genetic risk carrier is obligated to tell his or her relatives to avoid any family-related ethical dilemma that could be raised in the future .
Despite that , one may argue that it 's still up to the individual to disclose such health issues or to keep it within him- or herself . It 's certainly helpful to share with close relatives , for a proper discussion for solutions .
By doing so , one will feel less stressed in facing such disorder risks .
Relatives will certainly be supportive and show more caring towards the carrier .
By informing them , the carrier is never alone in fighting the battle with a genetic risk disorder .
On top of that , as the genetic risk may pass down to the next generation , it will involve more than just one family .
Therefore I would agree with the obligation of telling the relatives of both parties when one is about to get married and has a plan for having babies .
This would avoid the rise of more family-related ethical dilemmas .
There are more intangible advantages that could support the stance of informing the relatives once the results are known .
In conclusion , in order to avoid the family-related ethical dilemma , it is best for any carrier of a known genetic risk to inform his/her relatives .
The benefits of doing so outweigh its disadvantages .
More support must be provided through different means to give better direction when one is standing at such a junction on whether he or she should inform the relatives .
The decision to undergo genetic testing can only be made by the individual at risk for a disorder .
This is the common law in society .
However , it leads to a new problem : " should a carrier of a known genetic risk be obligated to tell his or her relatives ? "
This issue has been discussed for a long time .
However , there is still many differing views among people .
Thus , we are going to identify the advantages and disadvantages of the issue , which is " should or should not " .
Firstly , I believe most of us will agree with the following : " I would be anxious about my family when he or she told me that he or she was a carrier of a known genetic risk " .
Frequently , the carriers do not want to tell their families so they can continue their own life without the family anxiety .
It is obvious that it will be better for one person to be worried than many .
However , many of the carriers are not strong enough to overcome the challenges themselves .
With the families ' support , there will be more energy to fight against the demons .
Demons are not easily defeated and it requires much energy and psychological support .
Families give you the courage and support which you can not achieve by yourself .
That is the most essential element to overcome challenges .
Besides that , the known genetic risk is so very serious that it can not be described .
The seriousness can be larger than our imagination .
Lying in bed for the remainder of your life and even immediate death are the consequences which we can not imagine .
Families are our dearest in our life .
Without their concern and support , it can be hard to live a long life .
They play an important role in our life which can not be substituted .
A known genetic risk can also affect our next generation critically .
Therefore , it is our responsibility to tell the relatives to prevent the occurrence of undesired consequences .
Generally , the clinic or hospital will not tell the carrier 's families without the agreement of the carrier .
It is the ethical job of hospital staff to keep the secret of any patients .
We can not blame them because they are liable to the undesired consequences .
However , hospitals can provide a counselor to advise the carrier about the actions which can be taken .
Therefore , these kind of circumstances will not happen again and again .
It is a method that benefits two parties which is a win-win situation .
In conclusion , a carrier of a known genetic risk is encouraged to tell his or her relatives about the known genetic risk .
However , there may be some special case that is hard to define .
Thus , advice from hospital plays an important role for this .
The carrier is responsible to balance his or her own interests and the benefits of family and even society .
It is a hard decision to make but with the most appropriate path , it will create great circumstances for the carrier and families in the future .
With the risk of having a genetic disorder , many individuals have made the decision to undergo genetic testing .
Since the results will be known once the tests are done , each individual that is diagnosed as a genetic risk carrier faces an ethical problem : they should warn their relatives about the risk of also being a genetic risk carrier .
Or they can choose to keep silent until the next carrier is diagnosed .
From my point of view , a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives , for the following reasons .
First of all , from the perspective of human rights , a genetic risk carrier should not be obligated to tell the truth to others .
This diagnosis can be regarded as a kind of privacy to carriers .
They may not want this truth to influence their life or they want to keep it secret and not let others know about it .
This is reasonable since the exposure of the truth of being a carrier may make them be discriminated against or sympathized with by others which is not a positive outcome .
Secondly , the relatives of the carrier can also choose to do genetic testing regardless of the diagnosis of the carrier .
When people want to check whether they are genetic risk carriers , they can consult a doctor about it .
If they do not want to think too much of it and view it as an inconvenience , they may just ignore the consultation idea .
However , if a diagnosed carrier is obligated to tell his or her relatives , the relatives will be forced to know their heightened chances of being genetic risk carriers .
As a result , they have to accept the truth which may make their following life miserable .
Many people many argue that obliging carries may help more people , who are the relatives of the carriers , have a better chance of saving their lives because of the early diagnosis .
However , this is not exactly true when other factors including psychological influence and social influence are taken into consideration .
If one such relative is told that he or she may have a higher risk of getting sick , he or she may be scared about the unknown . Partners , spouse and colleagues may choose to leave , and many other situations may happen which means the relative 's life may be ruined .
On the other hand , as stated above , a person who wants to confirm and has been prepared to face the result can choose to do the genetic testing on their own .
In a nutshell , a carrier of a known genetic risk should have the right to decide whether to tell their relatives or not .
This should be accepted from the point of view of human rights , freedom of acceptance of relatives , as well as for many other social reasons .
Otherwise , making it an obligation will restrict the choice of carriers and bring a lot of confusion to their relatives .
For one with a genetic disorder to know the fact that he or she is a carrier , it causes more confusion rather than getting the disorder .
I agree that a carrier of a known genetic risk is obligated to tell his or her relatives .
There are four reasons why people do n't have to be shy about sharing their problems regarding a genetic disorder .
Firstly , the carrier and his or her family can take precautions , physically via actions to reduce the chance of it being inherited by offspring and mentally if the actions fail to prevent it from being inherited .
Many syndromes such as Down Syndrome and Taylor Syndrome can be prevented if the mother undergoes proper medication and does n't consume harmful goods during the pregnancy period .
This information may not be known by the mother if she does n't tell her relatives about her condition .
The more people ( relatives ) know about her problem , the more information can be provided .
If all efforts have been made but the children still suffer from the syndrome then the family has to accept this fact and do whatever they can to create a good environment for their children 's growth .
This is not the parent 's fault because there are still chances of the gene being inherited .
So , they have to also prepare mentally .
Secondly , the treatment and medication for genetic diseases are very expensive .
Albinism is one of the examples .
People with albinism have sensitive skin and it needs regular treatment .
Unlike people with a high proportion of skin pigment , people with albinism are prone to sunburn and other skin diseases .
If they do n't treat their body well , such as by using sunglasses or wearing sunscreen in the outdoors , the chances are good that they will get skin problems that may also lead to cancer .
Once you suffer from cancer , the cost of medication is very expensive .
To prevent the bigger problem from happening , it takes a lot of effort to take care of your body .
If the carrier does n't tell his or her relatives , it may be too late to get their support and prepare financially .
Thirdly , some diseases are not noticeable and may lead to serious health problems .
One of the diseases is sickle cell trait .
Usually people are not aware if they carry the sickle cell gene and this may lead to circulatory problems such as blood blocking .
If the parents know that one of them is a carrier and disclose the information to their relatives then they can bring their children to undergo genetic testing . Additionally , they do n't need to be shy of it because it is for the sake of their children 's health .
Fourthly , it is important for the parents to give a mental boost for their children with a genetic disorder .
When their children become teenagers , a lot of social problems may arise .
People and friends often mock your conditions .
A strong mental condition and conviction must be built from within and from the closest ones .
If not their family then who else is willing to do that ?
It is not a heavy job for the family if they have prepared mentally first by disclosing the information of the probability that their children may suffer from the genetic disorder .
In this modern world , technology has improved a lot compared to a century ago .
Particularly , there is a great improvement in medicine with many treatments for many formerly incurable diseases , and genetic testing is one of the methods which are used to diagnose an individual at risk for a genetic disorder .
The medical authorities claim that only the individual who is at risk for a genetic disorder can make the decision to undergo genetic testing .
However , once a test has been conducted and the results are known , a family-related ethical dilemma is born .
The question is whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should tell his or her relatives .
In my opinion , the carrier of a known genetic risk has to tell his or her relatives about this .
This is because his or her relatives have the right to know about this .
As many people realize , a genetic disorder can be related to the carrier 's relatives . That is , if one of the family members is at risk for a genetic disorder , it means that other family members are equally at risk to have it , so this problem should be treated seriously by the family .
Every family member has the human right to know what is going on with them .
If they do not even know that they are at risk for a genetic disorder , how can this explain their right ?
For instance , John is informed by his doctor that he is at risk for a genetic disorder but he does not tell his sibling James about this .
Although telling James about this is horrible to some extent , he should know what will be likely to be going on with him .
This might be beneficial for his future if he is aware of the risk of having this disorder .
The next point is that telling relatives can raise their awareness of having the same genetic disorder , and prevent certain genetic disorders from affecting themselves .
Genetic disorders are innate , but the great improvement of medical treatment makes it possible for humans to prevent the disorder or reduce the negative effects of the disorder on themselves .
In addition , doctors usually say , " Prevention is better than curing " ; this gives us an idea that preventing a disorder from happening has far more advantages than curing it .
Awareness of a genetic disorder may help in diagnosing a genetic disorder for a person , and therefore , this may make the prevention of a certain disorder possible .
For example , hypertension is partially due to genetic factors , but environmental factors also play an important role .
People who are aware of having such a disorder can prevent it from happening by adopting a healthy lifestyle , including having a balanced diet and exercising for at least 30 minutes every day .
To sum up , a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
This is their human right to know , and this may also save their lives by preventing the disorder from happening .
Together with the advancement of technology over the past few decades , medical improvements have increased exponentially and further enhancements are still constantly upgrading . Doctors empowered with advanced medical knowledge are able to diagnose and undergo genetic testing for patients to help them prevent the disease and take the necessary steps to protect their life . However , once a test has been conducted and the results are known , a question of disclosing the results to his or her relatives becomes a challenging issue to both patient and doctor . In my opinion , I feel the strong urge to support the obligation to inform patient 's relatives .
As it is a genetic risk , the patient 's next-of-kin might have a high chance of carrying the risk , hence the need to inform their relatives is important so that necessary prevention actions can be taken before unforeseen circumstances might occur . For example , if you are the only child in a family and unfortunately , you are suffering from a genetic disease where the trait might be passed on to your next generation if you have a child , hence , by letting your family members be aware of the situation , it would lessen family stress and suffering on forcing you to settle down and have children . However , social and ethical issues like discrimination and privacy are big concerns and potential barriers to force patients or doctors to disclose information to patients ' relatives . It challenges the confidentiality and privacy principles . Currently , under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ( HIPAA ) in the United States , there is no legal obligation requirement to disclose information to relatives . It is up to the patient to disclose to their family members . Early disclosure to family members brings a positive reaction and possibility of prevention . In the case of Angelina Jolie , she chose to disclose information and underwent treatment to reduce the risk of breast cancer significantly to under five percent . Her reason for disclosing her own story was that she did not want to live under the shadow of cancer .
However , there are still people against the decision of revealing private information . As in the case of Alzheimer patients , it is the patient 's own choice to disclose information . However , research has shown that doctors have tried to interpret who , how and to whom will the Alzheimer disease be disclosed to in order to minimize the potential negative impact to families members ( DementiaToday , 2012 ) . There are associations which provide help to Alzheimer patients like Alzheimer 's Association ( Alzheimer 's Association , 1980 ) . Although there are still thousands of genetic risk diseases out there that might not be receiving all help and support from everyone , the need to receive immediate understanding and support from family members is an utmost help that patients need in their difficult time .
In conclusion , the state should have passed a legal bill to measure and provide information to doctors that will help them reveal to relatives and family members information about the genetic disease and in which situations it is the patient 's decision . In addition , the state could also encourage the creation of assistance schemes to aid needy patients and encourage them to open up for the benefit of themselves and their family members . Although it may face challenges from social and ethical issues , in the long term , with appropriate encouragement and aid from the government , more individuals would have a different view of acceptance and take appropriate measurements to protect their own health and their loved ones .
Nowadays , the field of genetics has progressed further and further due to the high-velocity technological advancement .
Not long ago , the human genome project , sponsored by several large multinational corporations ( MNCs ) , was started .
In comparison , in the field of genetic testing , which enables people to be aware of the risk of a possible genetic disorder , the technology has been very mature already , and thus an even more popular topic arises .
While most people agree that each individual has his own right to decide whether to undergo a genetic test or not , they have different views on whether it is the patient 's responsibility or freedom to share the result with his or her relatives .
In my opinion , the patients , which are carriers of some known genetic risk , are supposed to share the truth with their family members .
Admittedly , it is a social obligation to be responsible for the lives of other people .
To the whole society , it is a duty .
Take H1N1 as an example . All the people in Singapore including students at school , travelers at the Changi Airport , workers in the office , as well as passengers on the street , are forced by law to take their temperature and report the result to the relevant government authority in charge .
To those family members who care about them , it is also a moral obligation .
How can they not tell their loved ones who they really are and get their loved ones in danger ?
The basis of a family is that everyone trusts and loves each other with no doubts .
Without trust and love , there is no difference between a family and a bunch of strangers living together .
Hence , it is essential to tell their family members about the risk of their genetic disorder both as a social responsibility and a favor to preserve the family unit .
Moreover , telling their family members the truth is the fastest and easiest way to get their support .
Without the support of loved ones , a patients ' life is no better than death .
Family members , one of the closest groups of people from whom one can get comfort , are a crucial factor for someone to successfully get over any possible troubles as a result of genetic disorder .
A study from New York University in 2010 showed that patients with family members around generally recover 2-4 days faster than those taken care of by professional nurses .
Even for those patients with terminal diseases , the duration of their survival is 30 % longer with the family support .
Some people may say that telling the truth may produce some unnecessary doubts and panics which will endanger the family harmony .
While every family needs to go through this or that kind of troublesome situations , the more troubles that a family has gone through together , the greater the bond will be established between the family members as well as the greater amount of trust , love and understanding .
Hence , for a family in which every member truly believes in each other and loves each other , all these troubles are just testaments to make them stronger .
Just as the lyrics of Kelly Clarkson , what does n't kill you makes you stronger .
Being in an Asian society where genetic testing is not a common practice , I do think that it is the choice of the patient whether he or she wants to tell his or her relatives about his or her disease .
The courage to take the genetic test and then to inform their relatives about the risk that they may have may result in people being judgmental while actually it is just a risk and not a confirmed case .
Furthermore , since it is the person 's gene that is affected , he has the right to determine with whom he wants to share the information with .
Nevertheless , while I feel that a carrier should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives about the genetic risk , I would like to suggest the person to at least share the information with her or his potential partner ( husband or wife ) since the individual 's genetic risk may affect their future children .
Many people in our society are not well informed about many genetic diseases and many of them will most likely judge or at least differentiate those who have genetic diseases since they feel that the patients are abnormal or 'weird ' .
This is because many relate genetic diseases to those such as Bubble-Boy disease , autism or Down syndrome .
In those diseases , many who are affected do actually have different physical characteristics compared to those without the genetic diseases .
While we do know that we should not discriminate them based on their limitations , many people still do it with or without realizing it .
In this particular case , we are discussing whether a person should tell his relatives about having a RISK of a particular genetic disease .
It is normal for people to demand for a fair and similar treatment as the others and therefore it is normal for people to try to keep some of their secrets or personal issues to themselves in case some people judge them or treat them differently . Many people really love to hear what they want to hear and therefore they may just ignore the word 'risk ' and assume that the person has suffered from the disease .
To prevent that from happening , I do feel that it is up to the person whether he wants to share the information with his family since his family may either be paranoid or judge him and act differently .
Especially when it is just a risk , the option is really his since he is not an actual sufferer .
There may be some people who say that it is necessary to tell the family members about the risk since some of them may be affected . While I do think that this view has a point , how much you can trust your family regarding this issue may also be a case .
Maybe we can trust our immediate family members but can we really trust all the other relatives ?
Furthermore , since the genetic risk or genetic disease is a very personal case , it is the person 's call to tell the relatives about it .
However , as I said earlier , it is better for the person to at least tell about the potential risk to his or her future partner since his genetic risk may affect his children later .
This information needs to be at least acknowledged by the other party before they make the decision to get married and have children .
There may be possibilities when both the husband and wife are carriers and therefore they should not have any children since their children may not be able to survive even after they are born .
Or in a less extreme case , the child may be disabled .
This piece of information does play a role in family planning matters , therefore although no one is obliged to disclose their genetic risk to anyone , it should be encouraged to tell it to their future partner .
In conclusion , whether or not the carrier wants to tell his relatives about his genetic risk , the choice is his because they are his own genes and he has full rights over them .
He may have different considerations other than due to the judging by people or in making his family worry for nothing when thinking of whether he should tell it to his relatives , and no matter what choice he makes , we need to respect it and we have no right in saying that he must tell his relatives about it .
We all know that life is priceless and we have no right to judge a person 's death .
With improvements in technology , a new life with genetic risk can be detected .
Genetic risk refers to the chance of inheriting a disorder or disease .
Therefore an entirely new dilemma is born : should a carrier of a known genetic risk be obligated to tell his or her relatives ?
This essay will discuss the reasons why the relatives are obligated to be informed that their children have a genetic risk .
One of the reasons that the parents should be informed is that they have to decide whether they are able to raise a child with genetic risk .
A child with a genetic risk may not have the ability to work , to strengthen the family with the others , and most of the time they are not accepted by society .
They may not be able to enjoy a life that normal people can enjoy .
This competitive world is cruel to those are not able to survive .
Parents and relatives have to work longer than expected and endlessly to foster their child if he/she is not able to care for himself/herself .
The situation may become worse if the child has diseases like cancer or heart disease , which means that parents have another heavy baggage named medication fees .
Not only the child but also the entirely family will suffer .
It is still early for parents to decide whether they can foster a new life that is not able to work and may suffer their entire life .
The other reason that parents should know the baby they have is a carrier of genetic risk is for a nation 's good .
There are always newspaper reports that a newborn baby has been abandoned at a hospital after they realized the baby has diseases that require a huge amount of money for treatments .
For countries like Singapore , they are short of manpower to contribute to the nation .
However , every year the government has to spend a lot to help disabled people with medical subsidies and build special schools to educate them .
Without an increasing number of disabled people in a nation , the government is able to concentrate and develop in other areas such as the military and education .
As citizens of a nation , they have the responsibility to support their country in many ways .
Moreover , in the world we are living in today , many miscarriages happen in the hospital every day .
It is easier for people to accept it morally .
Therefore I believe the parents have their right to know the health of their child .
Many people may support this with the claim that people have the right to enjoy the world , especially religious people .
However , the problem is , will people really enjoy their life if they have to stay at the hospital everyday with needles and endless pain ?
Parents know what is best for their children , thus they will make a right decision after they have been informed .
Also , humans should improve the medical field in order to prevent the tragedy from happening .
I think a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
Genetic testing is a personal choice .
One should have the full control of his/her information and it is his/her right to decide whether or not to disclose it to someone else .
As far as I am concerned , when a couple is going to have babies , they are going to run a few tests and see whether they could have some genetic diseases .
The results are disclosed to husbands and wives .
This is not the case I am talking about here .
The most obvious reason for those who argue for this opinion is that the relatives of the carrier are at a high risk of carrying these diseases .
They have the right to know whether they are at risk .
Also , telling them the result can let them largely reduce the cost for multiple testing .
They can also take immediate measures to reduce the possibility of having this disease .
Say a person has a disease C that might be a result of gene A .
He runs a test and knows that he has the gene AA .
This means both of his parents have gene A and they are both under high risk of having disease C . They could save the cost of running two separate tests to see whether they have a high risk of having disease C . Now suppose he runs a test and knows that he has the gene Aa .
This means one of his parents has gene A and one test cost could be saved .
His relatives can then take measures , if this disease can somehow be prevented , to stop this disease from taking their lives .
However , this can also be achieved by personal choice .
One can choose to tell their relatives if they are at risk .
Most people care about their relatives , and if there is no serious consequence of telling them so , I assume most of them will tell their relatives to be careful .
One might also choose to hint or encourage relatives to run a gene test if they are concerned about negative consequences that come across when they disclose their genetic results .
There are possible negative consequences that those might face if they disclose their genetic results to their relative .
If a person is obliged to tell his/her relatives , he or she might be discriminated against by those who do not carry this gene .
He or she might even be advised not to get married or have children .
For example , say an unmarried person has gene Aa and gene aa is sufficient for a very serious disease .
After he takes the test and is obliged to tell his relatives , everyone knows that he is a carrier .
So all the married couples go run a test and know they are not carriers . They might subconsciously see him differently and worry that he will find a wife who will carry this gene as well .
Third , it is hard to define relatives .
If a gene runs in the family , and one of the family members test positive , whom does he need to tell ?
If it is a big family , is he obliged to tell everyone ?
Spouses usually have very close relationships . If person A tell his family that he has this gene , his uncle C knows and tells his wife D that he needed to run a test because his cousin has this disease .
However wife D is not even under the risk of having this disease .
Then wife D might tell her mother , who likes to gossip on her way to the theatre .
In less than a week half of the town knows person A has a genetic risk , and his family might be a genetically risked family .
Then nobody wants to marry A , or his relatives .
This is the potential consequence if one does not have full control of his/her information , especially when the party that he is obliged to disclose his information to is a potentially large group ( relatives ) .
In conclusion , a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
The carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives
Nowadays , people not only pursue the comfort of their own life but also a better development of their following generations .
Since modern technology has become so advanced , it is now possible for people to decide whether to take a genetic test so as to be clear whether or not they carry genetic risk which can affect their next generation .
The debatable question , an ethical dilemma , is : are people responsible for telling their relatives that they carry a known genetic risk ?
In my opinion , the responsibility of telling family and relatives is quite obvious .
And there are two basic reasons .
The first one is the importance of being responsible for your self-wellness and health of your relatives and the second one is being responsible for the next generations .
The awareness of your relatives and families about your genetic risk is good for your health and the health of your relatives .
Because if you are carrying that genetic risk , then there is a great possibility that your relatives , such as parents or siblings , are carrying the same genetic risk as well .
The genetic risk that you carry may or may not affect your health and put you in danger .
If you have n't undergone genetic testing , it 's just odd and leaves it to fate for what will happen to both of you and your relatives .
However , if you have undergone and know that you are a carrier , you are responsible for your whole family .
Even though you can not eliminate the risk completely , you can at least try to be alert to avoid getting the disease .
As for those in your family who are more likely to be affected , they can go to the hospital to do the checks regularly .
Therefore , telling the families and the relatives to get prepared for fighting the disease and even prevent getting the disease is your responsibility .
Furthermore , you are also being responsible for your next generations by telling the truth that you are a carrier of a genetic risk .
If your wife is not aware of the truth and gives birth to the baby , it will be possible for your child to carry the same genetic risk as well .
Being the parent , you are now responsible for your next generations , since you allow the genetic risk to be passed on by generation and generation .
However , if you tell the truth to your wife and relatives , you now have an opportunity to decide whether to have children or not .
And if you still decide to have the baby , since technology has become so advanced , it might be possible in the future that the application of altering gene is perfected and widely used , you can then choose to give birth to babies by giving them a brighter future .
This is the responsibility of being a parent .
And in my opinion , this seems to be the main purpose of undergoing that genetic testing in the first place .
In conclusion , once you have undergone the genetic testing and become aware of whether you carry some specific genetic risk , there are responsibilities to your relatives , yourself , and your following generations by telling your relatives and families the truth .
To tell or not to tell
Consider the following case : we decide to undergo genetic testing and know the results of it .
We found that we actually are a genetic risk carrier .
Then it becomes troublesome about whether we need to tell our relatives who may carry this genetic risk as well .
There are really a lot of things we need to consider .
Every choice we have made may have a huge impact on their whole life .
As a result , what should we do ?
Tell them or keep this secret until we die ?
Many people feel that we should tell our relatives since we really care about their health .
For example , diabetes is a kind of genetic disease .
Once we found we are carrying this genetic risk , it is better for us to tell our family members because they may carry it as well .
If we tell them , they may start paying more attention to their daily habits like eating less sugary foods and keeping a good mood .
And it is important for those young people .
The earlier we tell them , better habits will arise and this will benefit the rest of their lives .
What 's more they may undergo genetic testing as well to see whether they are carrying it or not which is also better for them .
However , some people may argue about why we want to interfere with their lives ?
Sometimes it becomes extremely hard for them to accept this news , especially if they are going to know that they or their descendants may have a severe disease like blood disease which is untreatable .
Imagine you are living like a normal person but suddenly one day your relative tells you that actually there are some possibilities that you may encounter some disease in the future , what kind of feeling are you going to have ?
It may affect our daily lives and we will think about it every day .
We become so anxious that we can not focus on everything .
At the same time , there will also be a chance that the genetic test result is not correct which means they are actually wasting their lives worrying about this thing , so actually we are bringing trouble to them .
Personally I feel that we still should take our responsibility to tell them the situation .
Since this will really affect their lives , what we should do is to try to frame it in a positive light .
We can not let it go .
We should know that although we may affect their lives , we can still let them make correct choices in the future .
It is only after we tell them will they start paying attention to their health .
They will consider whether to give birth to a new baby because of this genetic problem and they will start finding ways to prevent their baby from carrying this genetic risk as well .
They always have a choice about whether to undergo the genetic test or not .
Maybe after we tell them , they will go for it and know more about themselves .
I know it will have a huge impact on them , but we should know that they are our loved ones , so we need to tell them and help them .
A genetic risk carrier should be obliged to tell
Genetic testing will be conducted when the individual is at risk of some possible disease .
Once the test is done , whether the results should be open to his or her relatives has caused extensive social controversy .
Some say it is a kind of invasion of privacy for the carrier and should be protected .
He or she has the right not to tell anyone .
However , in my opinion , it is the obligation of a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell his or her relatives about his or her actual situation .
This essay will illustrate two reasons .
First of all , it can be an alert for the family members of the patient and lets them be aware of the possible disease that they may also have .
As we all know , genetic risk carriers are likely to pass it along to their family members .
Once one person in the family is found to be at genetic risk , other members in his or her family may also be at risk of having the disease .
Some of the diseases may not show symptoms until the carrier is old enough .
Therefore , telling the relatives about the situation may avoid a lot of trouble in this way and save much time for proper treatment .
Sometimes lives may even be saved if they are told early and conduct timely treatment .
So out of consideration for the other family members , the relatives should be informed .
Secondly , it can avoid the case of the genetic disease being passed to the next generation when they have children .
They should let their spouse know about his or her situation before marriage .
They need to ask for a doctor 's advice before they plan to have a baby .
Some genes will pass only to boys rather than girls , and vice versa .
If the carrier refuses to tell the truth to his or her spouse , another life may be at risk of inheriting the genetic disease .
I noticed a real story in a newspaper years ago .
A couple in China have a son of 5 years old .
Their son unfortunately fell ill and he was diagnosed with a kind of genetic disease which is very serious .
They were told that the wife 's family was carrying the polygenetic disorder and it passes only to boys rather than girls .
Therefore their son inherited the genetic disease .
However , the wife actually had already known about the polygenetic disorder before the marriage and she did not tell her husband .
The son died after one year 's treatment and the couple got divorced later after that .
If the wife had not hidden the truth and asked for the doctor 's advice before they had baby , the tragedy would not happen .
In a nutshell , a carrier of a known genetic risk has the responsibility to tell his or her relatives .
On the one hand , he can tell members of the carrier 's family the possible disease they may have and can perform treatment in time if possible .
On the other hand , he may pass the disease to the next generation if the truth is hidden .
Nowadays , with the advancement of technology , it is easy to do genetic testing .
We can not deny that genetic testing really helps people a lot when they face the possibility of a disorder .
However , I think that genetic information is one person 's personal privacy which should be protected by the law .
Therefore , I think that one with a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives .
There are three reasons , which are as follows .
Firstly , genetic information is something personal which is also private like a person 's bank card key .
Other people should not be told without the person 's permission even if they are his or her family or relatives .
The government should set the law to protect this kind of privacy .
Once people 's genetic information is told to other people , they may know about the person 's potentially disabling disease or other bad things naturally .
Once people 's genetic information is told to other people , they may know about the person 's potentially disabling disease or other bad things naturally .
They may be biased against this person and even abandon him or her .
People do not have the ability to choose their genes , they should not be thought of badly because of bad genes .
So I think whatever the genetic disorder is or whether the gene is matched with their parents , it should not be told to anyone , even his or her family or relatives .
Secondly , the carrier of a known genetic risk may destroy the peace of a family and may even break the relationship between children and parents .
Once his or her family or relatives know that the person does not have the relation with them .
However happy they were before , there will be some barrier which will truly destroy the family gradually .
The relationship between the parents and their children should not be tested only in the genetic way ; it is something much deeper and tighter .
The parents give knowledge and love to their children . Meanwhile they feel happy with the companionship of the children .
The children rely on the parents to live .
When they grow up , they take care of the older parents and thank them for their dedication .
The relationship between parents and children is about love and dedication .
Everyone does not want to see a broken family because someone is carrying a known genetic risk .
Therefore , I think a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives without the person 's permission .
Finally , the technology of testing the gene is not very mature now .
There also exists the chance of wrong test results .
If a wrong test was not found by the doctor , the family and the children may be sad and have struggles their whole life .
Therefore , I think a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives .
Therefore , considering the people 's privacy and the existence of wrong testing , for the peace of the family , I support that a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives without the person 's permission .
A Carrier of a Known Genetic Risk Should be Obligated to Tell His or Her Relatives
More and more illnesses are discovered to be genetic in nature with the development of medical technology .
People will know whether they carry a disease on their genes after they have done the genetic test .
If there is no problem , that will be wonderful .
However , not everybody is so lucky that they can make sure they do not carry any disease genes .
Therefore , once people find they have carried the disease genes , they should be responsible and tell their relatives , or at least their family members .
It may be awkward and embarrassing for a person to tell relatives that he or she is a carrier of a known genetic risk .
But if they are all from one family and have the same forefather , then of course they own the same genes in some part .
Therefore there is nothing to be shy about or be afraid of .
If the person tells their relatives that he or she carries a disease gene , his or her relatives can go to the hospital to check whether they also have a disease gene .
Then the relatives can prepare themselves to prevent the disease from occurring .
Also they can prevent the disease from passing to their offspring .
If the relatives carry that disease gene , they can share the experience with him or her and help out . They will also teach him or her how to communicate with others about this issue .
If he or she wants to get married , he or she must tell his or her partner that he or she carries the disease gene .
Then they can have a healthy baby with the help of the doctors .
Or else , if he does not disclose the genetic risk , they may have an unhealthy baby and may cause the death of the baby or the end of their marriage .
There is a story I watched on TV .
A couple did not have a child for a long time after their marriage . Their parents were anxious about that and asked them to go to the hospital to check what was the problem .
After they came back from the hospital , the man told his parents that the problem was that he carried a diseased gene so that they can not have a baby in their life time .
The woman did not know the test result , but she overheard the talk and decided to divorce her husband .
After they got the divorce certificate , the man showed her the test report ; it said that the woman carried the disease gene instead of the man .
At that time , the woman knew how much her husband loved her but she ruined her happiness .
Tears showed nothing .
People can not avoid carrying the disease genes , which they born are with .
However , they can avoid the disease genes from being passed to their children .
Telling their relatives that they may have a risk of carrying the disease gene can make their family members bond closely , and many risks and conflicts can be avoided .
Genetic testing has become a beneficial way to predict and protect each individual at risk for a disorder .
However , there rises a family-related ethical dilemma : if it is right to tell a carrier 's family once the test has been conducted and the results are known .
I am most inclined to believe that his or her relatives have the right to know the result .
The answer is simply that everyone , especially our family , has the right to know the truth .
Though it is said that genetic testing involves emotional and social risks due to the test results , while the potential negative impacts of the risk still exist , the consequence will be significant if other members of his or her family do not know .
Then they are unable to have a suitable method to protect themselves and prepare emotionally .
Take Angelina Jolie for example , she is famous but she still revealed the truth about her genetic testing and her breast cancer risk .
Everything is not that bad if you know how to look at the bright side with hope .
People may feel angry , depressed , or even guilty about their results .
In some cases , a carrier can suffer tension within a family because the result is also related to the others ' risk somehow .
However , I believe it is just a usual reaction to this situation .
In addition , though it can be possible in some cases that he or she and the family can undergo specific discrimination in employment and their social life , people can face a more dramatic tragedy such as sickness or death if they can not even overcome this harsh situation .
Life is hard but people can not blame it on being unfair .
It is just because you do not become strong enough to overcome the hard times .
Furthermore , living with a secret is not a good feeling , especially if the situations of other relatives worsen , and you should feel guilty and depressed .
Moreover , the truth can not be hidden forever but when it is revealed , it will be more shocking and upsetting .
As a result , it is in the interest of the carriers and their relatives to disclose the genetic testing result as needed .
Last but not least , though genetic testing is a personal matter , telling the result to your family can improve and develop understanding and sympathy of each other as well as promoting awareness of taking care of everyone 's health .
That plays an important role in the possibility that relatives can overcome any societal discrimination and anxiety about the risks .
To put it in the nutshell , I believe that people should be obligated to tell their relatives about the genetic testing result for the good of their health .
It can be very difficult for them but necessary for the carriers and their family .
In addition , emotional preparations and the ways you explain your genetic condition are also important so that you can convey the correct information to your family and relatives and if necessary to guide them if he/she wish to conduct a similar genetic testing .
The Impact Of Social Media
Social media has been playing a vital and important role in our lives today .
It is almost impossible for us to keep away from it .
I started using Facebook one year ago , when I just arrived in Singapore .
And now I have over 500 friends on Facebook and spend many hours on it every day .
We know each others ' statuses , changes and so on through social media .
For example , if we change our contact numbers , we will not send an SMS to our friends any more .
Instead , we will make posts and tag our friends to tell about these changes .
And if you are not on it , you will just get lost .
In certain respects , social media has brought us quite a lot of convenience .
It is becoming even more convenient than talking on the phone since it is free .
We discuss every thing we like and we have more personal space . Our friends also can more readily know what we are doing and what we like .
Also , we get a chance to communicate with public people like popular stars and know their lives better .
In China , a lot of government organizations have open blogs to communicate with people , like firefighters , police officers and so on .
Social media allows them to explain to or inform people what is going on .
And actually lots of rescues are done with the help of social media , for example looking for missing people .
With more convenient and humanitarian communications , the relationship between government and people is largely improved .
What 's more , various cultures can be shown to us through social media .
We can know more about news and cultures through social media .
From this perspective , social media has made the world smaller .
However , we get less opportunity to talk face to face since social media is so convenient , advanced and interesting .
And even when we gather together in person , more people find that they have fewer topics to talk than before and choose to dig through their social media again .
When we are far away , social media makes it as if we are in front of each other ; sometimes when we are by each others ' side , we seem to be ever farther away .
This kind of feeling makes people 's relationships more unstable , insecure and unreliable than before .
Besides , there are more people showing their pictures of yummy food or their travels .
To some extent , this makes our life more luxurious and blundering .
For myself , I long to visit some places after I saw those beautiful pictures taken by my friends .
Sometimes I even can not sleep well because of excitement .
Social media makes our life so fast and leaves us less time to think about our life .
Social media is becoming more important and we need to think more to make it serve us better and better .
Interpersonal skills , like any other skills , require practice .
Besides that , these skills require time to develop and adapt .
The burgeoning of social media definitely has its stint , but amongst all good things , it is better to have them in moderation .
Convenience and efficiency are two very important uses of social media .
While millions of users are connected at any one time , any information can be readily available for their perusal .
This improves the connections between the users .
For example , one is able to send notifications and other information that we used to have in hardcopy previously . Over the web , this process takes seconds .
The recipient will then receive the information almost immediately depending on the quality of the network .
This convenience can be perceived to be almost in realtime .
Next , communication is also greatly improved .
In the past , the majority of communication was done through telegram , snail mail and poor-quality voice calls .
With the introduction of applications such as Skype and Facetime , any individual can phase off most of the older modes of communication .
Aside from hearing the voice , a webcamera could also be affixed to emulate a 'real ' interaction with expressions and gestures .
Communication would have taken a different turn without the easily available social media .
However , it is a good practice not to intensively use social media all the time .
Intimate interaction is greatly lacking in social media interactions , particularly touch .
Having to meet and interact for face-to-face chats allows one to be closer to the recipient .
It involves a level of dynamic interaction which utilises the motor , thinking and verbal cortex of the mind to coordinate .
Unlike the use of social media , most interaction is done with thinking and typing .
As a result , one does not train the necessary skills required for proper interpersonal relations .
It is also entirely incorrect to fault social media alone for the lack of interpersonal skill .
Howard Garner studied the effect of multiple intelligences amongst people and stated that interpersonal intelligence is a form of skill on its own - some have it , some do not .
Howard Garner mentioned that the different intelligences can be charted , in accordance with the use of tests , and ranked .
Fundamentally , those who scored a lower ranking for interpersonal skills are more likely to stumble when this skill is needed .
Though social media is not necessarily bad , it must be used appropriately - for work , family , and friends .
The types of use must also be taken note of - informing , interacting , discussing and others .
The distance between the parties must also be looked at .
For people who live very far from one another , intensive use of social media is justified .
Those who live nearby should at least meet up , and not use social media as the primary source of communication with each other .
And at the same time , this improves one 's interpersonal skills through dynamic practice between individuals in a real-time face-to-face situation .
The inclusion of an intimate presence and touch could also bring a better rapport between those interacting .
Recently , the rise of social media has helped people to have closer connections with each other . It is a more convenient and cheaper way to have online contact compared to face to face meetings .
In my opinion , social media websites such as Twitter and Facebook will not negatively impact the chances for people to have face to face contact and then negatively affect interpersonal skills .
On the other hand , it may even increase the chance of having face to face contact among people .
First , social media networks have a large user base . It helps to link people from different parts of the world .
In the days before social networks , people may not have the chance to know others from different countries or people they have never meet before .
The number of people that they know may only be limited to the people they meet in daily life like classmates and work colleagues .
Therefore , social networks bring more and more connections between people and they may have a chance to chat with people they have never known before . And this helps to develop interpersonal skills as well .
Secondly , although social networks are used mostly to chat online but not face to face , they may still decide a time online to meet others face to face in the daily life .
In this case , the social network helps people to increase the frequency of talks .
For example , if social networks did not exist , business people would need to meet each other face to face and it is very time consuming . Even sometimes with business that is not so important , and it still takes a lot time on travel which is a waste .
However , the social network helps people to meet and chat much more easily : they can even use video chat and create group chats with multiple parties at the same time .
Nowadays , some companies even conduct online video interviews with their applicants as it saves time and money .
Social networks may also create some negative impacts for people .
The largest negative impact is that due to online networks , some people start to use and rely on internet obsessively .
They take too much time using online social networks and thus do not have time to meet with people in their real life .
It not only affects the interpersonal skills but also is bad for people 's health if one spends too much time on social media .
Secondly , social networks may leak certain personal information to the public . As the cyber world is not perfect and not safe , people may not effectively protect their privacy online and sometimes , and then some people may use others ' personal information to deceive .
In conclusion , although there is an unsafe online environment , spending too much time on the internet may have potential negative factors for using online social networks .
It provides people with more convenient ways of contacting others and improves the frequency of meeting with each other .
It also helps people to develop their interpersonal skills through online chatting .
Overall , there are more benefits than disadvantages .
The world is increasingly becoming flattened by all kinds of social network websites such as Facebook and Twitter .
We can even know what a friend , who lives thousands of miles away , eats for lunch though these kinds of social media .
From some points of view , social media really has a lot of advantages since it allows us to communicate with friends cheaply and more conveniently .
However , its disadvantages also can not be ignored when you consider it as a platform to show off and as a stage for cyber crime .
Social network sites provide us many conveniences .
We do n't have to hang out with friends or talk with them on the phone to know his or her latest news , we can simply scan the webpage .
It can help us know more about each other .
It can make people become closer as well .
For example , if you find out through Facebook that one of your friend 's favorite singers is Justin Bieber , you can give him or her Justin Bieber 's new album or concert tickets as a birthday gift .
It will be really sweet and you two will surely become closer .
In addition , social network sites can help you keep in touch with friends living very far away .
I met some Canadian friends in Egypt .
Without Facebook , we may have lost contact .
However , thanks to Facebook , I can still keep in touch with them and I know what they are up to recently even if we are geographically separated .
The disadvantages of social network media are quite undeniable .
Research shows that people will unconsciously hide his or her real thoughts when he or her says or posts something that will be exposed to the public .
It means that one can not know another 's real thought and personalities by reading things that he or she puts on social network media .
It will make him or her quite upset when they communicate in real life .
In addition , with all those " nice " guys around on social network websites , one may neglect people surrounding him or her and just communicate with friends on Facebook .
It is a common scene in which two people are sitting next to each other and seldom talk but rather just look at their cellphones .
According to research , this kind of behaviour is not good for people 's psychological health .
Cyber communication is quite different from face to face communication . People who depend on cyber communication too much will not get used to real life communication .
In addition , cyber relationships can not always work in real life .
With no close relationships in real life but only close cyber friends , one is more likely to feel lonely because the physiological need of human beings is to feel a bond with others with our five senses .
With the willingness of people to become the best , social network sites now become a place to show off .
Some people will post pictures of their expensive things or overseas travel on the social network and get a feeling of satisfaction by doing so .
It is mentally unhealthy and it may cause people , especially teenagers , to become materially driven .
Last but not least , with all kinds of personal information on one 's social network page , it is convenient for a criminal to make use of this information to commit a crime .
Above all , social network sites are like a two-sided knife and people can take good advantage of them by avoiding the possible disadvantages such as by putting less personal information on his or her Facebook page .
The modes of communication have been changing over the years , from letter writing to social networking .
This phenomenon is caused by rapidly changing technology , which has made communication faster than ever .
Today , social media sites , such as Facebook and Twitter , are relatively common in contemporary society , and people can communicate with each other , online or offline , on these social networking platforms .
They can even make new friends with similar interests on these platforms , which will be able to connect almost everyone closely all over the world .
However , critics may argue that the existence of social media sites has reduced physical human interactions among people as they will prefer sitting in front of a computer to going out and making new friends .
This essay will discuss both the benefits and down sides of using social media in the contemporary society .
Nowadays , social media is able to disseminate information faster than any other media .
About 50 % of the people have learned about breaking news from social media .
This is due to people spending comparatively more time on social networking than time reading newspapers .
Furthermore , with current technology , smartphones are able to get access to social media sites which have made it easier for consumers to use .
Hence , social media has benefited the masses by equipping them with a powerful tool to disseminate information almost instantaneously to the people around them .
However , critics may argue that not all information or news disseminated is reliable .
There might be false information or hoaxes spreading around on social media .
For example , in 2012 , there were false rumors of fires , shootouts , and hoards of gunmen in a Mexico City suburb which had spread through Twitter and Facebook .
This caused panic among the people who then flooded the local police department with numerous phone calls . And this resulted in temporary school closings .
The spreading of false information is potentially a psychological threat to everyone , given that social media can disseminate information relatively quickly .
Nevertheless , cyber police roam these social networking platforms to prevent hoaxes from spreading around .
But there will still be unreliable sources spreading false information on social media sites despite the high security to control almost every social networking movement .
Social media is able to improve our relationships and help us make new friends , provided that there is mutual trust and mutual understanding between both parties .
Many teenagers today claim that they are able to keep in touch with their friends through social media , regardless of their location .
In the past , people used to write letters to their friends and it would take a relatively long time to send the letter over .
Therefore , with the help of technology , people are able to catch up with each other conveniently .
Furthermore , it will be easier to make new friends who have similar interests or hobbies .
However , in order for people to maintain their relationships as well as make new friends , it requires mutual trust and understanding between both parties .
It might not be easy to accurately judge someone 's feelings over social media as one may cover up their emotions while on social media .
In addition , there are also chances for people to miscommunicate with each other as they can not sense the tone of the other party over social media platforms .
This will result in unnecessary conflicts between two parties over the miscommunication .
But if there is trust and mutual understanding on social media , it will be ideal for people to improve relationships and make new friends .
In conclusion , social media in contemporary society is able to help one improve relationships and make new friends , as well as disseminate information efficiently to the masses .
However , there are risks of false information and chances for miscommunication .
Nevertheless , the advantages of social media will benefit the masses if the negative aspects of it can be carefully taken care of .
All-in-all , social media is the product of rapid technological advancement and there is more to come in future .
Advantages : Social media sites have greatly eased long distance communication and interaction due to their accessibility and convenience .
With a globalised and interconnected world today , Twitter and Facebook are now the mainstream platforms for social interaction .
With just a touch away from any media or electronic devices , one can easily interact and communicate with his friends without much hassle .
Thus , long distance relationships or friendships can be maintained and keeping in touch with your circle of friends has been made much easier .
The sharing of personal photos , posting the status of one 's personal feelings or experiences , and replying to these posts allow human interaction to be engaged and expanded with ease .
Introverts or those who are shy to communicate with their friends are now able to do so in the form of words via social media platforms .
Thus , socialization can occur seamlessly and effectively with the utilisation of such social media platforms . Meet-ups and appointments are no longer a barrier for humans to contact and communicate with one another , making human interaction possible at one 's own convenience .
Society will adapt to such phenomenon as physical interactions are transformed into cyber interactions .
With the frequent usage of and reliance on social media and the Internet , a society that uses this medium will be more advanced and adapted to the highly connected world .
This will greatly help a society to progress rapidly .
Disadvantages : One of the main concerns of using social media platforms to communicate is credibility .
The certainty of what is being shared or expressed could not be proven physically as media limits this physical interaction , except when using a webcam to chat .
We can not be certain for sure the reliability or truth of some posts or information we received through the Internet .
We may actually be communicating with a hoax Facebook account of a cyber friend , which we assume to be real but in reality , it is a fake account .
Photos and informations retrieved from their profile page may be fabricated to suit a certain personal agenda .
Thus , the lack of face-to-face human contact through social media restricts actual interaction which can be stimulated through the media .
Although emoticons can be used to show certain emotion , this differs from the real authentic emotion of your friends when you observed them through their body language and their facial expressions .
The danger of such media socializing is the uncertainty of such communication due to a lack of physical interaction .
Furthermore , this lack of physical interaction has affected human inter-personal behaviour since communication is made through social media instead of meeting in person .
This lowers one 's ability to interact with one another which can adversely shape one 's behaviour .
The lack of exposure to real life interaction with humans will not create the confidence and the skills necessary for one to interact seamlessly and effectively with others .
Therefore , for an effective and efficient society , there is a need to have a balance between social media interaction and face-to-face human interaction within its people .
Nowadays , people can even use their phone to read news and everyone can be the first witnesses of what is happening in the world .
People use Twitter to follow the artists or celebrities they love and use Facebook to see what is their friends ' recent activity .
Nevertheless , they still can use the phone to call and message to contact another .
Not only can phones perform these task , but also devices like personal computers , laptops , tablets , and many other devices which are able to connect to the internet .
It is obvious to see that internet saves people 's time and also connects people globally .
Several arguments have been made claiming social media actually has some inevitable disadvantages for people .
People can only use electrical devices to access internet .
Whenever they need to use social media , they have to use a phone or the internet .
Generally people need their eyes to look at the display screen of their phone or computer and fingers to manipulate the corresponding device .
As a result , they wo n't use eyes and hands to express their feelings to people nearby , which means they have lost the tools they need for face-to-face communication .
This can be easily seen in restaurants or cafes nowadays .
For example , it is not uncommon to see a family of four having dinner in a restaurant without any chatting , because they are holding and looking at their display screen with one hand while the other hand is holding a fork .
Or a group of friends having high tea in a caf without chatting as well , because they do not know what to talk about except for pressing buttons on their display screen .
The children nowadays do not know what are neighbourhood games and who is staying next to them , all they know is pressing icons on the screen .
These are some concrete examples of how social media reduces face-to-face human contact .
When people get accustomed to using social media to contact other people , what will happen is that their interpersonal communication skills will degrade and disappear eventually .
First , they have lost the courage to meet strangers , and even the courage to talk .
Also , they will not have enough experience communicating with people face to face and will not be versed in conversation skills .
As a result , social media helps them do work but indirectly affects their interpersonal skills .
Social media does have some other advantages besides their general benefits to human being .
First of all , people save money by using the internet to contact other people and read the news .
A father may be able to make a call to his daughter who is in another country via social media software instead of making international calls which can be a large expenditure to a normal family 's salary .
He can even talk to his daughter face-to-face using video call via the internet .
Second , people makes friends all over the world and are able to easily update their friends with their recent activity .
A guy who is going to travel for months can easily tell all of his friends about his activities .
When one of his friends who is not aware of this has failed to contact him via telephone calls , he might be able to get his whereabouts using social media .
These are the advantages that save work most of the time .
In conclusion , social media benefits people in several ways but at the same time harms people .
People should avoid the misuse of social media and use it in a suitable fashion .
With the aid of social media , people bond globally , information flows rapidly , and humans live happily .
All of us are living in the technology-driven society .
Have you ever wondered why we use these tools to connect ourselves with other people ?
It started with the invention of technology which has evolved tremendously over the past few decades .
In the past , we travelled by ship and now we can use airplanes to do so .
In the past , it took a few days to receive a message as we needed to post our letters , and now , we can use e-mail , which stands for electronic message , to send messages to our friends or even use our mobile phone to send our messages .
With the example that I mentioned earlier , we can see that distance between us and our loved ones are getting further apart .
This is because with the ease of technologies , such as airplanes , some of our friends might go overseas to continue their studies or even you may go away from your family to pursue your studies or even careers in life .
Thus , Twitter and Facebook become mediums that we need .
Nevertheless , everything in life has positive and negative effects .
This is applicable to these social media sites .
The next two paragraphs will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our society .
With the help of social media tools , we can stay in contact and keep ourselves up to date with our family and friends even though we are away from them .
Social media sites such as Facebook allow us to share our pictures or even chat online with our parents while we are overseas .
These approaches help parents to communicate with their children and know what kind of activities their children are doing when they are overseas .
Social media is beneficial as it connects you and your loved ones even though you are separated by distance .
It might not be able to replace the joy that you have when you are with your family but it could help to reduce the sadness of being away from your family .
As I mentioned in the beginning , there are also disadvantages of social media tools .
One of them is that it reduces the level of concentration , especially among youngsters .
This is because it is part of everyone 's habits to check their Facebook page as their friends will post something new every second .
Thus , you can see that some students will browse Facebook while attending lectures .
This means that the students are not concentrating when they are supposed to do so .
As a result , it could affect their lives and studies .
This will then lead to stress as these students are not able to cope with their studies because they were distracted .
In my opinion , every individual has to take responsibility for their own lives by making the right decision .
There are advantages and disadvantages in using social media sites , however in this case , striking a balance between social media and real-life is the most important thing to do .
Nowadays , the use of the social media platforms is commonplace in our lives .
In an increasingly globalised world , such platforms even enhance and complicate the links between individuals in the world .
Thanks to them , people can get to know one another online without having to travel to meet up for business purposes or personal reasons .
However , it also brings some social changes in which such virtual worlds are overtaking the real world , resulting in some negative impacts in an individual 's daily life and therefore becoming a large problem in societies as a whole .
As people spend more and more time on such social media sites , the importance of face-to-face human contact has decreased .
As people feel more confident online where they do not have to face real-life issues on the spot , they feel more comfortable and thus prefer communicating online .
This results in a lack of interpersonal skills in an individual , especially young students as they always have the option to turn their back on the real life and go online .
This becomes a huge problem when they have no choice but to have to face things in real life .
As they are so used to having an online avatar , they may lose their self-identity in real life and may not know how to interact people in real life .
Another problem with social media is that the benefits from investing such enormous time and energy is not reflected as something positive to the users .
The reason why it is so addictive is that the more people get into social media , they seek attention from their friends .
However , such sparks of sudden attention are extremely short-lived and disappear quickly . Thus they do not add any value or meaning to the user 's life .
Also , according to a research , it has been proven that the users feel sadder after using Facebook and this is because users unknowingly compare their lives with other people 's lives .
But seriously , most people only post the happiest moments in their lives .
Social media definitely has some other strong benefits that make users stay , one of which is connecting people .
Indeed , I myself use Facebook just for contact with friends that I want to keep .
However , friendship on such a virtual world is so superficial which is not so relevant to real life .
Also , as numerous profit-driven companies realize the huge human traffic on such social media sites , they see the customers as fish in a pond by uploading many advertisements .
Furthermore this also possibly triggers privacy issues , such as Facebook allowing some other profit-driven companies to have access to users ' information .
As this happens , users are more and more prone to possible frauds .
Social media sites are at their peak at the moment , however , I believe that when people realize that such sites are not making them better people in real life , they will not indulge in it as much as they are now .
The users , soon , will realise that they do not need such social media sites to keep in contact with their friends because , if they really need somebody , they will reach the friends no matter what .
We think we are all connected through all sorts of social media , but are we really connected or falling apart ?
Social media sites like Facebook and Twitter were made with the intention of connecting people from around the world .
The idea seems great , and nowadays most people , even the older generations , will be on at least one social media platform like Facebook .
The parents are now the " friends " of their kids , and they can now " follow " their kids more closely and in real time .
People post their random thoughts or daily activities via Twitter and post different kinds of photos on Facebook frequently , in order to be connected with their so-called friends .
However , as we then tend to spend too much time on these sites and have significantly reduced face-to-face human contact , our interpersonal skills are eventually affected .
First and foremost , I would like to share the advantages of using such social media in my daily life .
As a student , I tend to meet lots of people from different backgrounds and in different settings .
We may meet only once but we exchange our contact numbers as well as Facebook information in order to keep in touch .
Instead of just keeping contact numbers that we may not even call , social media like Facebook are a great way for friends from different fields or even from different parts of the world to be connected .
Within clicks , we could check on the friend 's profile and read on his/her updates .
On the other hand , we could update our profile by posting on the wall and our friends could read up on the newsfeed .
This allows friends that may not have the time to meet up to stay connected in a way .
Not only that , we can make new friends easily through such online platforms .
Hence , our social circle is indeed expanding .
Nonetheless , what seems to make us connected can also be what causes us to fall apart .
The obvious disadvantage of using social media is the time reduction on face-to-face contact .
This subsequently leads to poor interpersonal skills that inhibit the growth of our real social circle .
For example , we tend to send birthday wishes when Facebook prompts us " Today is someone 's birthday " .
In fact , we would have just forgotten our friend 's birthday .
We used to send cards during the holidays like Chinese New Year , and we feel so good to write one and of course to receive one with stamps on it .
Gone were those times , and now we do mass messages and the receiver may feel less meaning in such online wishes .
As time passes , we may have more " friends " on the list , but the meaning of friends needs to be redefined .
In a nutshell , there are two sides to every sword .
The users of every social media site needs to strike a balance between the real world versus the virtual one .
We should maximize the benefits of such platforms but be careful of its impacts on the actual life that we have .
Ultimately , the best way to enhance interpersonal skills is still through face-to-face meetings but social media sites are only the tools to enhance it .
Nowadays , social media sites are commonly used in society .
I believe 80 percent of people use social media sites .
These sites play the role of connecting people around the world .
It consists of the functions of connecting , sharing , interacting and advertising .
However , social media also has some disadvantages which concern society .
Therefore , this article is written to explain the pros and cons of using social media in our daily life .
First , with the function of social media sites which connect the people , everyone is able to interact and communicate with friends and families , or even strangers , without any time or place constraints .
Through the social media sites , we can chat with our friends who stay in Europe and New Zealand .
There are over a thousand miles between Singapore and these two countries .
However , we are able to chat with our friends without traveling to the countries .
It saves a lot of money and time as well as strengthens our relationship although we live in different places around the world .
Besides that , companies also can use the convenience of social media sites , such as Facebook chat or Skype , to facilitate project meetings with parties from around the world .
Substantial cost is saved by avoiding the tiring travel from one point to another .
With the huge amount of cost savings , this capital can be utilized in the other sectors which benefit the company more and boost the company 's profit .
However , there are always two sides to a story .
Some scholars argue that the use of social media reduces face-to-face connection between people .
Since ancient times , human interacted with others face to face .
Without facial expressions , it is easier to misunderstand the speaker 's intention .
That is why facial expressions are one of the most important elements in social learning .
In addition , another issue is that " social media sites will affect writing skills " .
Based on a scientific report , writing skill will be reduced when one spends more time on social media sites .
I believe most of us have the experience of suddenly forgetting how to write a word that we should know .
The auto correction software is so effective when using electronic devices to the point we do not recognize the importance of writing .
Writing is an essential skill of people to express their own feelings and opinions .
Privacy ' , is a word that is popular these last few decades .
Humans have their own rights and privacy .
I believe that most of us agree with these terms .
However , there is news about how social media sites leaks users ' information to companies for cash reimbursement .
Everything we type in these sites is recorded on servers and then transferred to the companies for spying and advertising .
Although it looks like no laws are broken and it is your own space to speak and do anything you want , you are actually wrong .
You are not only controlled by the government 's laws but also spied on by the government .
In conclusion , every story has two sides .
It is our responsibility to identify the advantages and disadvantages of social media sites .
To utilize the technology well , we should do our best to not only balance the pros and cons but also lengthen the pros and shorten the cons .
Thus , the new technology will be able to bring a prosperous future for our current and future generation .
With the spread of advanced technology , social media sites are becoming more and more popular .
Getting connected on social media such as Facebook and Twitter has become a main daily habit as well as going to work nowadays .
In this situation , both advantages and disadvantages of using social media apply to our daily life .
On the one hand , it is obvious that many advantages have been brought to our lives .
Social media provides people with the opportunity to get in contact with each other at any time and place .
Whether we are at home or at school , at work or on a holiday , we are able to communicate and interact with our friends .
Even when people are thousands of miles apart , social media makes it possible to interact by writing posts or tweets .
When our phones are accidentally broken or dead , we can also use social media to get in contact with our friends .
Some people who try to talk in public can also actively take part in group chats via social media .
Besides , we can make more friends through such interactions when our friends also bring their friends in .
Therefore , the popularity of social media sites have made it more convenient for people to update friends ' statuses and contact friends more frequently .
On the other hand , we need to rethink the impacts of social media .
There are still many disadvantages to using social media .
Firstly , interpersonal skills may be affected by the reduction in face-to-face human contact .
While social media brings conveniences to people 's lives , people are more and more willing to use social media for chatting instead of being face-to-face , which has a time and place requirement .
People who are not good at public chatting may be more reluctant to talk to people , and their interpersonal skills can never be improved under this situation .
Secondly , people 's addiction may actually , to some degree , exacerbate social alienation , and this kind of alienation causes some social media users to suffer from the over-dependence on virtual social networking .
More and more networking has been transferred to the internet from real life .
This is a potential danger for teenagers who are growing up with social changes to get hurt .
Thirdly , updates about luxurious living standards as well as other show-off situations may make people 's daily life more and more grandiloquent , which is not an accurate social growing trend .
Lastly , it is easy for people to waste a lot of time using social media .
Again , there is a trend for them to suffer from social media addiction and thus their studies and work may be greatly influenced .
Since we can see both advantages and disadvantages of using social media , and we can not deny the huge benefits that have been brought to us , the trend of using social media may last for a long time .
Therefore , every time we use social media , we should take both sides into consideration and try to avoid being affected by the disadvantages .
Only by absorbing the essence and discarding the dregs can we make better use of the social media .
Given this sophisticated era of today , experts keep producing inventions that are meant to make life easier .
Geographical and transportation barriers are not a problem anymore because communication and information technologies are continuously enhanced .
The telephone may have been perceived as the biggest innovation ever created when Graham Bell first introduced it .
However , since the internet was created , the telephone has started to give way to social media sites .
Many advantages are given to the users .
Let us take Facebook and Twitter for example , two of the most famous social media sites .
Through Facebook , people are able to maintain relationships with their old acquaintances .
This benefit can not be obtained through telephone or mail because peoples ' details and address may change from time to time . While on Facebook , people can keep in contact with old friends just by referencing their name and photos , for example , as the identifier .
Facebook is like a combination of a messaging and chatting service , personal profiles , media sharing , and other entertainment add-ons ( i.e . social games ) which allow users to communicate with remote people , and also to update and express themselves at the same time .
Facebook is like a combination of a messaging and chatting service , personal profiles , media sharing , and other entertainment add-ons ( i.e . social games ) which allow users to communicate with remote people , and also to update and express themselves at the same time .
Twitter , which has a more simplified function compared to Facebook , provides more benefits if used as an information sharing medium .
Twitter only allows users to give updates which are limited to short sentences in order to spread information quickly . Only highlighted messages are delivered .
For Facebook , a comprehensive way of sharing is offered since multiple photos and videos can be uploaded , long notes can be published , even documents and data can be shared through Facebook nowadays .
These advantages also come in handy as most of these social media sites are accessible through mobile application in our smartphones .
Despite the luxury that is offered by social media , there are also harmful side effects which people may not realize beforehand .
Research shows that the frequency of face-to-face meetings among people who are addicted to social media sites has been decreasing .
As a consequence , it affects their interpersonal skills .
People can think while typing and prepare what they want to say but in face-to-face communication , every word that comes out of your mouth , may not be well arranged , and is the picture of your personality .
This skill requires practice and can not be done completely through social media .
There is a situation where a family is having a dinner together in a restaurant but everybody is busy with their gadgets : posting pictures on Facebook , updating statuses on Twitter , or even chatting with friends .
These social media tools serve a purpose in binding people in spite of their geographical boundaries but it should n't mean that surrounding people are neglected as the tradeoff .
This is related to the interpersonal skill that is mentioned before , that can decrease qualitatively if we are too used to staring at gadgets and not interacting with people face-to-face .
Another disadvantage that affects other people is that by only showing selected parts of our lives , we build a public " false image " .
We tend to only share our happy moments in media .
Because of this , other people start to think that our lives are full of happiness with no problems at all .
Other people are then influenced by us and tend to do the same .
As a result , people may form a poor opinion of themselves and this may even lead to depression and a mental disorder .
It also reduces our sympathy .
This is a serious social problem and affects a lot of people .
As explained above , modern and sophisticated technology does n't always give advantages .
There are a lot of disadvantages that people may not realize .
It is up to people 's discretion and comprehension to decide which side they want to take .
So , we should never forget to consider and weight the benefits and losses of every decision that we make .
Nowadays , technological advancements greatly improve the life of many people .
In most countries , there is an emergence of social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter .
Many people think that the social media sites improve the communication between people while some others argue that there are several negative impacts for society .
One of the advantages which are carried by those social media sites is that they can connect us more closely than before .
In the past decades , when the social media sites were not yet fully developed , people connected with others who lived far away by using a phone or even a letter .
However , calling a person by using a phone and writing a person a letter require some cost , and sending a letter to a person who lives far away , especially in remote villages , takes much time .
The emergence of those social media sites solved these problems .
People connecting through social media sites do n't have to spend any money to communicate , and also take only a few seconds for the message to send .
Therefore , the advantages of social media sites are that they save money and time , and also provide a convenience for many people .
Moreover , this also provides an alternative way for people to contact a person who they have not seen for a very long time , such as their friends in primary school or secondary school .
As we graduate from a school , we will probably lose contact with some of our friends .
Some of them may have changed their phone numbers and addresses , and we are not able to find them through a phone or a letter .
If those are the only ways to contact them , we will probably not be able to find them .
Facebook and Twitter can serve as an alternative route to make connections between us and our old friends .
Hence , social media sites serve as a platform for the connection .
Everything that comes with benefits will also have its disadvantages .
Social media sites also have some negative impacts for people and society .
The advancement of those social media sites makes people rely on them so that some of them prefer to use those sites to contact each other rather than talking to each other face to face .
Many people argue that this is the most serious problem brought about by social media sites .
The usage of social media sites indirectly causes a reduction in face-to-face human communication in real life , which will in turn cause a loss of interpersonal skills for many people .
As we all know , interpersonal skills are essential for us to communicate with each other and to present our views and ideas .
The loss of interpersonal skills results in the inability for people to present their ideas well .
As a result , they will gradually lose their ability to compete with each other in society .
In conclusion , social media sites have both positive and negative consequences for people and society .
As a part of this modern society , we should learn to distinguish between good and bad impacts brought by the advancement of technologies , and also learn to avoid the cons and maximize the benefits of those sites .
With the advancement of technology in recent years , there is a tremendous demand to keep in-touch with people and up to date with the latest news .
Some of the famous examples are social media sites like Twitter and Facebook .
With more than a billion users ( and increasing ) from all over the world , social media sites have clearly demonstrated its success in playing an important part of our life .
However , there are arguments that social media lead to a reduction in face-to-face human contact , which in turn affects interpersonal skills .
Let 's examine the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily life and society .
First and foremost , all social media sites are free .
All users need are an internet connection and an email account so everyone can have a Facebook or Twitter ID to start their journey in social media .
Secondly , it helps people to keep in touch with one another .
Finding old friends through Facebook , for example , is easier than asking people in real life .
Social media helps to lessen the hassles of geographical distance and brings people closer .
Thirdly , social media sites keep us up-to-date on the latest news and updates from almost everywhere in the world , all just a click away on the refresh button .
Last but not least , social media sites also link people together by allowing us to create our own groups , pages or sites to share our hobbies , interests and studies in particular subjects .
Hence , it is undeniable that these sites play an important role in our globally inter-connected world .
However , social media sites also have a second side which is its negative impact on humans .
Undeniably , it becomes more addicting when we spend more time socialising and interacting virtually .
We spend the majority of our time on sites like Facebook , Twitter and it affects our daily work productivity and performance .
In the corporate world , employers often block social media networks to prevent employees from spending their office time on personal leisure instead of concentrating on their work .
Using text-message language as an informal way of communicating on social media networks is a bad influence for us in the long term .
The more time we spend on these sites , the less time we spend on interacting face-to-face with one another .
Hence it lessens the valuable interaction between people and the time we spend away from the computer screen or mobile phone .
In addition , there are also instances on social media sites where people use a fake ID to insult or harass someone , like the case of Heather Chua on Facebook recently .
These malicious comments often go viral and it creates a strong negative effect on the real user in real life , which might lead to an unwilling attitude by the victim to interact with others in real life .
In conclusion , everything has its two sides and it depends on how we exploit it .
With the current boom in technology , it is understandable that people should become more technology-savvy and they will want to spend more time interacting with each other through social media sites . However , it does not mean that we should neglect face-to-face human interaction as it plays an even more important role in our life .
As more and more social websites such as Twitter , Facebook and Weibo have become ubiquitous , seamless and imperative in our life , people may worry about the younger generation having problems communicating face-to-face .
However , I believe that the benefits of these online chatting rooms tremendously outweigh their repercussions .
Social media enables us to explore the world far , far away without paying expensive airplane tickets and losing a one-week holiday .
The convenience is beyond description .
With a small smart phone or a computer at school , at work or at home , we can easily make friends worldwide with a 'click ' and get to know about their life through conversations with them , reading their blogs , photos and status .
Compared to face-to-face interaction , online conversation is easier for strangers to open up to each other .
Since some of the information has already been revealed on the home page , it is also easier to find some common topics to talk about .
Moreover , people usually like to boldly share their real feelings online with their masks from reality removed .
This has been indicated in a report done by Boston University in 2012 : 80 % of information posted online is true while a person may like it 3 out of 10 times in real life .
This shows that a Facebook friend may know more about you than your close friend who does not have a Facebook account .
That is because we are acting in reality while we have no reason to do that in the online virtual world .
Although sometimes this genuine sharing of information may be inappropriate or even harmful , such as prevalent use of vulgarity and mean-spirited comments , we can minimize those repercussions through strict regulations of content online .
Another advantage of social media is that it aids in the spread of democracy .
People around the world could easily share their thoughts about their governments .
That eliminates the incomplete information disadvantage for some remote rural regions where people are less aware of what actually is happening around them .
One example is the 2012 riots in Egypt and Zambia .
The idea of searching for democracy was passed from the Egyptians to people in Zambia quickly through the use of social media .
However , as the government controls most of the media , social media may be tools of their campaign to manipulate the thoughts of the public .
However , as the government controls most of the media , social media may be tools of their campaign to manipulate the thoughts of the public .
For example , in the 2012 general election in Singapore , Dr Tan Chee Keong made use of Facebook to spread his campaign videos to the public .
Because of this , social media is still a much fairer and more transparent online platform for the public to share ideas compared to other traditional media .
Intensive use of social media does reduce the time people spend in face-to-face communication .
It is commonly seen in a food court or restaurant with a group of people sitting together around a table with each of them having a cell phone in their hands .
They are too busy with their way too many virtual friends and some of them neglect the feelings of their real-life friends .
In this case , I have to say that to err is human .
What we can do is to educate the public about the importance of their friends by their side and teach them to manage their time well .
In conclusion , the use of social media has more advantages than disadvantages in our daily lives .
What we can do is to cautiously manage our time spent online and manage our words used online .
With the regulation of government and relevant authorities , the virtual world would be a better world .
Social media sites ' role in connecting people around the world is undeniable .
Thank to social media , communication among people all over the world is possible and can be done with ease .
Apart from the ease of communication given the distance , many other advantages such as knowledge sharing and trade can be gained via social media as well .
Nevertheless , with those advantages , some disadvantages may appear such as a reduction in face-to-face human contact which affects interpersonal skills , privacy concerns , as well as social media fraud .
Twitter , Facebook and Skype are some social media sites which enable us to keep in touch with our friends or family who are in other cities or countries .
Through those sites we are able to talk to them , to know what their activities are and who their friends are , etc . From the surface point of view it is no doubt that these sites help us to have a better relationship with our relatives despite the distance .
The sharing of information can be done faster through social media as well , which is why nowadays many news publishers make their own social media accounts . For example , Channel News Asia has a Twitter account and will update its followers with headline news .
That actually shows how news and information can be shared easily through social media .
Furthermore , since many teenagers and young adults are fans of social media , this information can reach them easily without the need to watch or listen to the news reports .
Due to the popularity of social media , many people have started doing business via these sites .
More and more advertisements can be found on Facebook , whether it is our friends or professional brands selling their products online . We can buy and contact the sellers through those sites , which can be considered as an advantage for us , the buyers .
However , is it the same when we keep in touch with someone virtually compared to when we meet them personally ?
I do think there is difference and I believe many of us would agree .
When we write or communicate virtually , we can hide our feelings and may not act ourselves since we do not want the other party to judge us .
Other than that , sometimes the message from one party is not properly delivered or communicated to another through written language , and thus the 'tone ' of the message when it was sent and when it is read may be different .
Many people are very brave in telling people their opinions online but in real life some of them can be very shy and not outspoken at all .
This will lead to bad inter-personal skills as well as a problem with trust .
Nowadays we can not really trust new people whom we know from social media since we will never know whether they are even 'real ' .
Some people fake their identities in media sites so that they can know more people or some may even cheat others .
In addition , privacy issues have become more popular nowadays since some people do not realize that they may actually be sharing some information that they are not willing to share in the first place .
Therefore , while social media sites undoubtedly have benefits to our life , we should consider their drawbacks and thus use them wisely so that we can gain more of the benefits and they thus disadvantage us in the smallest way as possible .
It is a common scene that almost everyone on public transportation is watching a phone or wearing an earpiece in this modern society today .
Many developed and developing countries have the same scene .
Some say that it is a necessary step for human evolution .
Social media sites like Twitter and Facebook are popular among people to connect them to others , even from different countries .
It also brings many negative effects such as a loss of face-to-face communication skills , which is important in the workplace .
This essay will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily life .
One of the significant advantages of using a popular social media site is that people can reach others easily , even without contact for a long time .
In this fast pace and competitive world , people may not be able to keep in touch with others .
With the help of social media sites , people are able to upload their new discoveries and funny scenes onto them and get updates from their friends .
Personally I am studying overseas and have a life busy with studies which makes it hard to keep in contact with old friends .
I use a common social media site with my friends to help me know what their statuses are nowadays .
And I am able to easily find a common topic when I contact them .
In Singapore , many Malaysians cross the sea to work here .
Many of them are busy working and separated from their children .
One manager in my workplace has the same situation .
After my manager taught her mother how to use Facebook , she was able to upload video clips of her grandchild .
Therefore my manager would not miss the moments of her daughter 's growth .
Social media sites are also a very useful tool for people to start a new friendship or relationship .
People get connected or closer if they like the same things .
It is easier for people to approach another after knowing their likes .
Students can exchange their experiences from school even if they are in different countries .
People are able to share their culture or pretty photos online , so others can also appreciate the joy with them .
Thus I believe that social media sites are a useful tool to help people known each other better .
However , social media sites are a two-sided sword . It also negatively impacts our daily life .
One of the disadvantages that concerns many people is that people lose interest in face-to-face communication .
Many people like to use language to pretend to be someone else , and lose confidence when they talk to each other .
Although not everyone is good at public relationships even without the existence of the social media sites , we can not deny that it does affect the interpersonal skills of some people .
In conclusion , the shadow always exists when there is light .
We should take advantage of the tools we create and try to avoid the negative effects .
Social media sites are supposed to be a very useful and convenient tool to use and bring people closer in this globalised world .
The use of social media has largely influenced our ways of communicating with one another .
Online friends have become real life friends and real life friends communicate with one another online .
Social media has profoundly changed interpersonal relationships and the way we exchange information .
There are advantages and disadvantages to this change .
Social media has reshaped communication .
In real life , we communicate with one another as equal participants .
We share ideas and stories , and forge friendships based on mutual respect .
However , communication on social media is largely based on " broadcasting and listening " .
When we use Facebook and post pictures and statuses , we are actively " presenting " facades of our life to others .
When we use Facebook and post pictures and statuses , we are actively " presenting " facades of our life to others .
We tend to post pictures which look the best and post statuses that are funny .
We broadcast these facades of ourselves to others .
The images we choose to present are tentatively considered .
The audience is not some specific person , but everyone we might know , or even the entire world .
There is an element of seeking out for attention rather than expressing one 's true opinion on social networks .
On the other hand , the viewers are not the listeners .
They are just scrolling down pages and pages of pictures and statuses and see one of them which they might think it funny .
It is not the broadcasters themselves they care about , but the content .
This type of communication does not help forge interpersonal relationships .
In real life , establishing friendships requires a well-rounded understanding of one another and caring for one another .
The latter requires face to face interaction where we can show our emotions to the other .
One can not truly understand a person by only stalking his/her Facebook page where he/she carefully chooses what to present .
One can not truly show their emotions by another by texting some emoticons .
The broadcasting and viewing model is not good for forging relationships .
However , it is good for sharing information .
On social media , everyone is a broadcaster and a viewer .
With my social network accounts , I seldom read newspapers or go to news websites anymore because I can easily get news from the statuses of my friends .
If I am interested in politics , I can just follow some politics newspapers or public figures .
I get news for sales , clothes and cosmetics from my friends .
If some of my friends have horrible taste in clothes and he/she posts them often , I can simply block him/her off .
Information gets circulated .
The most popular information gets circulated the most so it is hard to miss .
Social networks play a role in providing and also filtering information .
This saves me a lot of time in reading newspapers and watching TV .
Personally I feel more at ease on social media .
Given the above two points of view I think social media could forge more interest-based friendships .
With the help of social media , I became real life friends with people from online forums whom I share the same interests with .
I also discover some of my friends ' interests which are similar to mine so that talking to one another is much more about life , study , friends , etc .
Communication does not focus on how we feel or say to each other , but whatever is interesting , or the content .
In this case , interpersonal skills are not as important because our goal is not to impress somebody , but to get the information that we are both interested in .
In conclusion , I think social media has reshaped interpersonal relationships from a more human-based friendship that requires sharing and caring between friends , to a more information-based friendship that requires a mutual interest .
There are advantages and disadvantages , however . Whether it is good or bad we are still not sure .
It is just different .
Advantages and disadvantages of using social media in daily life
People that live in the modern world really can not live without social media sites like Twitter and Facebook .
Almost all students and young adults possess Facebook or Twitter accounts .
It is true that social media allows people to connect to one another more conveniently .
However , it seems that , especially for some people , sharing some parts of their lives such as videos and photos on the social media sites becomes a necessity .
An extremely interesting and ironic phenomenon is a group of friends who met and sat around one table , but none of them were really chatting with one another .
Instead , all of them were more interested in posting pictures of this " cheerful " meeting on their social media sites .
Therefore , there is need to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of social media .
Social media enables people from different parts of the world to communicate with one another .
People used to write letters and send post cards to keep in touch with friends from the past who now live far away from them .
It can take a few days or weeks for them to receive the messages .
Nowadays , all people need to do is just type in front of the computer in their own rooms .
And people on the other side will only need a second to receive the message .
Distance and time are no longer the problems , which is convenient , especially when instantaneous chat is required .
However , when people become increasingly addicted to this convenience and fail to communicate with people who are close to them , their face-to-face interpersonal skills are lost .
Social media provides people a way of talking and chatting which can never be considered as a form of communication .
When people chat on those media sites , there is no eye connection , no emotion delivery and even the expressions are typed in by using some combinations of punctuation .
For more convenience , sentences are shortened to simply three or four words such as lol ( which means laugh intensively ) and " asap " ( which means as soon as possible ) .
People indeed go to great length to make their words as short as they can .
Once they are communicating with people to their face , expressing themselves appropriately becomes really a big problem .
Social media also provides people a lot of information about people and things that they are interested in .
For example , on Twitter , it is exciting to follow people that you adore like famous movie and tv stars , businessmen and entrepreneurs .
It makes people feel extreme close to their admirers ' lives and works .
News that people care about can be easily obtained when you refresh your social media sites on your smart phones and laptops at any moment .
However , after one has registered with those social media sites which are not reliable , all the information you have filled in will be a weapon against you in the future .
Furthermore , not everyone on social media sites is honest .
The profile picture may not be the person who that user says he or she really is .
The reason might just be that he or she just wants to " decorate " his or her face .
But there is a possibility that the person on the other side is deceiving you in order to obtain your information against you .
This inauthenticity risks people 's information and privacy that are shared on social media sites .
To sum up , social media has advantages and disadvantages in people 's daily lives .
It shortens the distance between people from all over the world and makes instant communication possible .
And it becomes more convenient to obtain and update information by using social media .
On the contrary , social media makes people lose their ability to communicate effectively in their real lives and makes people at risk for privacy exposure to those whose identity can not be verified on the social media sites .
How do social media help change our lives ?
Through the development of technology , social media plays an increasingly significant role in the whole world .
Everyone in the world can not stop using it every day to express their feelings or ideas and log their experiences and likes which helps their friends know their lives better .
However , it also raises the concerns about whether it brings us more benefits or is a human disaster .
Although it helps to connect us with our friends wherever we are , at the same time it reduces the chance for us to talk to our friends face to face which may affect our interpersonal skills .
Thus , whether there are more advantages than disadvantages is a tough question for every human being .
Many people say they will support social media since it really helps them to have a closer view about how their friends are doing in other parts of the world .
This is especially important to people who are overseas .
To them , social media is the only resource they can use to know everything that happened in their home country and they can use it to show their lives to their lovers as well .
What 's more , these days social media plays an important role in spreading information .
Nowadays , people can just easily put their information on their Facebook account and wait for a response from others who are from different parts of the world . This brings us a huge amount of convenience .
It is quite significant especially for young teenagers since they would rather go to these sites to read the news and know what happened in the world than read the newspaper every day .
However , there are also many people who are against this technology .
They worry a lot about the deleterious effects on teenagers , who are still developing .
They pointed out that actually social media reduces the chance for us to talk to people face to face .
The more we care about Facebook , the less time we will have to spend with our friends .
Nowadays , it is quite common to see at a party people who would prefer looking at their phones and reading all the posts on Facebook if they feel bored .
It makes people worry since if all the teenagers continue using social media frequently , they will lose the ability to talk to people .
They will feel it becomes difficult for them to find any topic to communicate with other people .
Personally , I strongly agree that social media brings more disadvantages compared to advantages .
Although it is really useful when we need to use it to let other people know we really live a good life , it wastes a lot of time as well .
Thinking in another way , in the time we spent surfing those sites , we may have already finished one book or done other more meaningful things .
We should keep in mind that there are still ways for us to contact our family or friends .
Everything will be bad if we do n't know how to use them wisely no matter whether it is really good or not .
As a result , it is important for people to know that we need to be cautious about the time we spend on social media .
As stated above , I strongly believe that if we can use social media wisely rather than abuse it , we will all live a better life .
The advantages and disadvantages of social media
Nowadays , as technology is becoming increasingly advanced , more and more social media sites are showing up in our daily life .
You can see people using Facebook and Twitter through their smart phones or ipad on buses or on trains .
Some may say that the appearance of these modern media will reduce the chance for people to communicate face to face .
This essay will illustrate the pros and cons of using social media in modern society .
First of all , social media can make it more convenient for people to make friends and contact each other .
Years ago when these modern products were unpopular , the way for people to communicate or contact people far away was still restricted to making phone calls , sending emails or writing letters .
Some of these modes take a long time and some are not efficient enough for people to get a response .
However , social media solves these problems well .
People can contact their friends on the internet and get a reply very fast .
Communication is also not limited to words .
People can express themselves through pictures or emojis .
People can also get to know their friends ' state of mind and mood by looking at their posts online .
Moreover , people can be aware of what is going on in social situations and see the comments online and share their opinions on these websites .
These social media sites make people 's lives much more colorful and provide a lot of fun .
However , social media may do some harm to people 's lives .
It will make people spend more time chatting on the internet rather than communicate face to face such that interpersonal skills will be badly affected .
Some people spend a lot of time on it and forget their real life .
Actually , I have seen some people who are very funny and interesting when I chat with them online .
However , they are quite boring when I talk to them in real life .
Teenagers are developing their interpersonal skills and social skills when they are growing up .
If they spend too much time on these social media , it may cause some problems in their mental development .
They may feel uncomfortable when they communicate with people face to face .
Some may spend less time with their family and not know how to express themselves .
Moreover , some wrong values on the websites will affect teenagers and confuse them .
Some may even do something wrong .
In conclusion , the emergence of social media sites is a double edged sword .
It can make our life simpler .
People can promote their friendships and relationships through social media .
Whereas , it can also make people forget to communicate with their family and friends in real life and negatively affect their interpersonal skills .
But overall , the advantages far outweigh its disadvantage .
So we need to make best use of social media and make it a fun way of adding some excitement when life is boring .
And try to bypass its shortcomings .
Remember to send greetings to our friends and family frequently .
Nowadays , with the advancement of technology , it is easy to communicate wherever you are .
The appearance of social media sites truly connects people closely .
People can know about their friends ' recent looks and interesting events just by checking their Facebook or other social media sites .
We can not deny that the social media sites truly allow old friends to not lose touch and the chance to communicate with you even if you are in a different country .
However , the social media sites truly reduce face-to-face communication which greatly affects interpersonal skills .
There are two advantages and two disadvantages of using social media in people 's daily lives .
Firstly , the social media sites can connect people with their friends and parents closely .
By typing words and showing pictures , people can express their emotions that they are too shy to express .
For example , on mother 's day , people who are too shy to say " I love you " to their mothers can type it on his or her mother 's Facebook page .
Then his or her mother will also know the emotion and feel loved .
On the other hand , when the teenager is studying in a foreign country , the internet is the only way that he can communicate with his parents and friends .
Therefore , social media is truly good for people .
Secondly , the social media sites can not only connect people with their friends closely .
People can also learn a lot about celebrities , such as Obama and Bill Gates , on Twitter and Facebook and get the first-hand knowledge about them .
They can learn how these people succeed and they can also have the chance to talk with them and know their thoughts by using social media .
On the other hand , with the help of social media , some homeless people or someone who needs money because they are sick can get help from around the world quickly because once one person knows the information , he or she will share it to their " friends area " , then many people will know it and spread the information to the person who can give help .
On the other hand , there are also problems with the use of social media .
Firstly , when people rely on social media to communicate with their friends and parents , they will get too accustomed to communicating by typing and not talking .
People will prefer to talk to their friends and meet their friends online and gradually reject face-to-face communication .
Therefore , social media truly limits the interpersonal skills such that people lose the chance and the ability to practice talking and connecting with friends .
Secondly , without communication in the real life , people lose the ability to discern what is true and false .
There are many people in social media with beautiful images and good content on their pages . However in real life , he or she may not have jobs or live poorly .
Teenagers may believe these people and easily be cheated and lose money even if they are safe .
Therefore , social media is not safe which is bad for a teenager 's future development .
All in all , the appearance of social media truly helps people a lot in many areas .
However , there exist some disadvantages which will affect people in some degree .
Advantages and Disadvantages of Using Social Media in Our Daily life and Society .
Nowadays , with the development of technology and society , social media has become more popular and even important in our daily life .
We communicate with others using social media , such as Twitter , Facebook and microblogs more and more frequently .
There is no need to for people to leave their home to interact with others . They chat online , share pictures , and tell others what they have done or share funny stories .
It seems that people build a good relationship with others by the social media , but problems can come out .
People do not know how to talk with others face to face , especially with strangers .
Thus , we need to talk about the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in your daily life and society .
As for the advantages , there are two aspects : it is more convenient to contact others and easier to know about others .
One advantage is that it is more convenient to contact others with social media .
In the past , if one wanted to tell some important news to someone else who lives far away , he needed to write letters and it wasted time .
The time and distance involved with spreading the messages was very difficult at that time .
Therefore , people would not contact faraway friends and relatives unless there was something important .
However , people now can contact anyone all over the world who can use a computer at any time , and there is no time delay of messages .
The other advantage is that it is easier to know about others through social media .
If there is no social media , it is difficult for people to know about strangers .
They may collect information about that person by asking his friends , colleagues or family members .
And the information collected may not be intact and true .
Unlike today , with the help with social media , people can easily get the information they want just by searching online , and know about what that person did everyday at any time .
As for the disadvantages of social media in our daily life , these include wasting time , causing illnesses related to sitting a long time in front of a computer , the quick spread of rumors and fake news , and most importantly , making people lose the ability to talk each other face to face confidently .
It is weird that people sit around the table but all look at their phones and do not talk with each other .
If there is a joke on their Facebook page , they may talk to others in this way : " hi , look how ridiculous this is " , then they laugh together .
No matter if it is a party , dinner or just a simple get-together , there are always some people who bow their heads and play with their phones even if their family and friends are in front of them .
In conclusion , there are both advantages and disadvantages of using social media in the daily life .
People should enjoy the advantages of social media while being aware of the disadvantages and try their best to avoid the disadvantages .
Today 's world is considered to be the era of social media sites like Facebook and Twitter which are attractive since they connect people around the world .
However , some people worry that social networks can affect interpersonal skills as they reduce face-to-face human contact .
The advantages and disadvantages of using such social media in society are elaborated as follows .
Nobody can deny social media 's advantages as the benefit it provides in connecting people regardless of nationality , race , culture and language .
Social media is a trending channel and a suitable mean of communication .
First , social media brings convenience to the world .
It has erased the boundaries of distance and time .
There are no more worries about the time it takes to deliver letters and packages .
Nowadays , thanks to the help of social media , with just one click , you can contact your family and friends wherever you want .
You can share photos , videos and every meaningful experience from your life .
More importantly , it is cheap and easy to use social media .
Second , social media networks open a door of opportunities for people due to their great benefit in connecting people .
A lot of fresh graduates can find jobs thanks to Facebook and Twitter .
Young people can broaden their relationships , meet new friends and learn wonderful things about many parts of the world .
In the business arena , social media is a good tool to develop and advertise products and services .
On the other hand , social media also has disadvantages which have created worries for society recently and made it a controversial phenomenon .
More and more young people tend to live in the social media world most of their time . This reduces face-to-face human contact , which can affect interpersonal skills and relationships in social life .
First and foremost , we should realize that social media is not trustworthy and real .
Everyone can easily make up the personalities and characteristics they want .
They can become anyone .
Though social media does help create relationships , relationships and friendships are only firm and real if people have gone through experiences and communicate face-to-face .
There is a story of a girl who lives in the social media world every night for eight years .
In the chat room , she created a close relationship with eight people .
She talked with them every night , trusted them and shared her life with them .
Then eventually she discovered that eight people became one as he was using eight different identities to chat with her all the time .
Furthermore , the convenience of social media also has its weakness .
A lot of people use their true information on social media sites , which can lead to crimes and deception .
People can use the information to deceive family and friends and banks and do bad things such as blackmail , ATM theft and so on .
Last but not least , social media does affect human interpersonal skills when people increase the time on social sites and reject the opportunity to do social activities as well as interact with people .
Recent research has shown that the more time people spend on social media sites , the less ambitious they become .
As a result , if the situation keeps going on in this unexpected trend , it will cause a bad effect on the younger generation .
To put it in a nutshell , everything has its own pros and cons .
So do social media networks .
It not only is convenient and beneficial in connecting people and developing businesses but it also can damage people 's relationships and interpersonal skills .
Social media is only beneficial as long as we know how to use it in a correct and suitable way . The combination of both social media sites and interactions in daily life will develop people 's potential to the fullest .
