Keeping the Secret of Genetic Testing
What is genetic risk ?
Genetic risk refers to your chance of inheriting a disorder or disease .
People get certain diseases because of genetic changes .
How much a genetic change tells us about your chance of developing a disorder is not always clear .
If your genetic results indicate that you have gene changes associated with an increased risk of heart disease , it does not mean that you definitely will develop heart disease .
The opposite is also true .
If your genetic results show that you do not have changes associated with an increased risk of heart disease , it is still possible that you will develop heart disease .
However , for some rare diseases , people who have certain gene changes are guaranteed to develop the disease .
When we are diagnosed with certain genetic diseases , are we supposed to disclose this result to our relatives ?
My answer is no .
On one hand , we do not want this potential danger causing frightening effects in our families ' lives .
When people around us know that we have a certain disease , their behavior will change , whether caring for us too much or keeping away from us .
And both are not what we want , since most of us just want to live as normal people .
Surrounded by such concerns , it is very likely that we would be distracted to worry about these problems .
It is a concern that would be with us during our whole life , because we would never know when the '' potential bomb '' would explode .
On the other hand , if there were ways that could help us to control or cure the disease , we could go through this process with the help of the whole family .
For example , if exercising is helpful for a potential family disease , we could always look for more chances for the family to exercise together .
And we could keep track of all family members ' health conditions .
At the same time , we would be prepared if we learned that other family members got this disease .
Here I want to share Forest 's view on this issue .
Although some people feel that an individual who is found to carry a dominant gene for Huntington 's disease has an ethical obligation to disclose that fact to his or her siblings , there currently is no legal requirement to do so .
In fact , requiring someone to communicate his or her own genetic risk to family members who are therefore also at risk is considered by many to be ethically dubious .
"
Nothing is absolutely right or wrong .
If a genetic test for a certain disease is very accurate , and it is unavoidable and necessary to get treatment that will be known to others , then it is okay to disclose the result .
Above all , life is more important than secrets .
Genetic risk has consequences that should not be taken lightly within a family circle .
Family members have a common genetic make up , shared by either of the parents , but what affects one family member may or may not affect another .
In cases where an individual has learned of a genetic disorder , disclosing this to his or her relatives is solely a matter of the individual 's own moral system .
The " right to know " issue is highly debatable ; although there may be a genetic risk , one can not be entirely sure it applies to all of one 's relatives , because the genetic information could have come from the families of either parent .
This also means that as soon as a person is made aware of his or her genetic profile , he or she gains knowledge about others ' .
This knowledge may be relevant to them .
An example that may serve as an illustration is breast cancer .
It is hereditary .
Should one who suffers from this disease keep it a secret from their relatives ?
It is also one 's duty to ensure that he or she undergo periodic healthchecks on one 's own .
Sometimes family structure and cultural beliefs can influence the pattern of communication .
In some families , the parents who learn of a son or daughter 's genetic risk would decide who is " allowed " to tell .
In many families , parents are seen as having the primary responsibility to pass on information to any offspring , regardless of who had first received information about genetic risk .
In addition , a woman testing positive for BRCA1 would be expected to allow her brother or sister to disclose such information to a niece or nephew , rather than do it herself ; however , this may be further complicated by an individual 's response to risk information , since they not want to know .
Hence , there were also tensions if participants felt that they could neither pass on information to relatives who needed to know ( such as nieces and nephews ) nor persuade those with authority ( the parents ) to do so .
The notion of authority also extended vertically .
For example , a grandmother may have more authority to pass on information than an aunt , even if the grandmother herself is not at risk and the aunt is .
These findings are important from a practitioner 's perspective , because patient constructs of the family and kinship may not be in line with geneticists ' views of family relationships , or about which blood ( or non-blood ) relatives should be informed and by whom ; these are also likely to be dependent on the cultural and ethnic context .
Ultimately , one must bring attention to who may benefit from such information , and to assist those at risk to make thoughtful decisions about disclosure .
Whose duty it is to inform at-risk relatives or not greatly depends on personal morals and the nature of how direct the risk is to them .
People with a close blood relationship generally carry some similar genes .
In such situations , if one of the family members or close relatives is found to carry a genetic risk , it is better for the patient to tell his or her close relatives about the issue and let others know about the risk . This way his or her family members can do some daily exercises to prevent the potential disease , or they may go to the hospital and check for the corresponding flaws .
In my opinion , although the announcement of carrying a genetic risk involves the issue of one 's privacy , the carrier should be obligated to inform his or her relatives in order for them to be able to take preventative measures against the potential disease .
I agree with this statement to a large extent .
I will focus on the negative side of sharing the genetic risk first .
Many patients with the genetic risk would want to keep it secret , because the genetic risk may indicate a high chance of carrying a certain disease .
Especially for young unmarried people , if they are known to have some genetic risk , there is a chance ( but not a certainty ) that their children would carry the same disease .
Therefore , keeping the information secret from her or her future spouse would help the relationship .
Secondly , announcing the potential risk would cause family members to be scared of this issue ; although the reaction would not be that serious , people would still fear that they would have some potential disease in the future , and thus go to the hospital and do additional checks or take more medicine in order to prevent the disease , creating unnecessary costs to the family .
Furthermore , the sharing the genetic risk would affect relationships with the relatives , because others may decide to keep their distance from the carrier , so as to lessen the chance of getting the potential disease .
On the other hand , while keeping the genetic risk secret may benefit the carrier to a certain extent and help to keep their privacy , it has much larger negative effects on the family members and relatives .
First , in the case of marriage , people should be honest and tell their spouse that they may carry certain genetic risks that may affect their offspring .
It is better to let the other party know than to wait until after the baby is born and a certain type of genetic disease is found .
It is better for both parties to be honest .
Secondly , genetic disease has a close relationship with one 's daily habits .
One example is when a person is told that he or she is at risk for diabetes .
In this case , the carrier can eat fewer candies and chocolates to lower their sugar intake ; at the same time , if the carrier shares this information with their relatives , they can perform the same exercise to consume less sugar and prevent the disease .
If the other parties did not know , they may end up with diabetes in the future , without having the chance to prevent it .
In conclusion , the benefits of sharing genetic risk with the carrier 's relatives outweighs the costs .
Therefore , it would be better for the carrier to be obligated to share the information with the relatives , in order to let them know and help prevent the potential disease through daily exercise .
Among diseases , a large number are caused by genetics .
A genetic disorder may or may not be a hereditary disease , and it is sometimes hard to find out whether one has these kinds of diseases .
A longstanding discussion is whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives that his or her disease is caused by a gene .
From a legal aspect , the answer is no , but from an ethical aspect , the answer should be yes .
We can not make a law to push a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell his relatives about his genetic problem .
It is immoral and impractical .
Firstly , what diseases one has is a private matter .
And protection of one 's privacy is a human right .
A law should not require someone to tell others about their private matters , especially not against their will .
It is against his or her human rights , and it is against the spirit of the law .
The spirit of the law also includes fairness .
What is the basic difference between genetic disorders and other disorders ?
It is unfair to create a law singling out genetic disorders .
In addition , it is impractical to make such a law .
A good law should be clear and easy to execute .
However , there are many problems with enforcing a law requiring a carrier to tell his or her relatives the cause of his or her diseases .
Firstly , which relatives should be told ?
For example , does the carrier only need to tell his or her direct relatives , like parents and brothers and sisters , or does he also need to tell relatives like his grandmother 's sister 's son 's daughter 's nephew ?
Singling out the former is unfair .
Other relatives may have the same probability of developing such a disease .
How can a law exempt such a group of people from information needed to face their potential disease ?
However , there is also the ethical point of view .
A carrier should have a feeling of responsibility to tell his or her relatives of their genetic disorder .
By doing this , they may be able to save the lives of some of their relatives .
This is possible because a carrier with a bad gene may not necessarily acquire a genetic disease ; a healthy lifestyle may be able to mitigate the risk .
A typical example is genetically-caused hypertension .
Hypertension can be caused by genetic problems which make it more difficult for the carrier to process the fat and salt in their blood .
People usually get this kind of hypertension after they become adults .
However , if they already know they have a gene that puts them at higher risk for hypertension , they can develop a daily habit of avoiding salt and fat .

In a nutshell , our society can not require the carrier of a genetic risk to share their disease with their relatives , but such a carrier should be willing share that information .
By doing so , fewer of his or her loved ones will suffer from the genetic problem .
In the age of rapid technological advancement , a lot of medical breakthroughs are made possible .
One of these is genetic testing .
It is able to detect illnesses or diseases and even a child 's parentage .
However , it will become a controversial issue , because of the dilemma of whether a carrier of a known genetic risk must inform his or her relatives .
If the knowledge of the genetic risk were shared with the family or relatives , those relatives could take necessary precautions to prevent the disease .
But if the risk is for a terminal disease , some of the relatives may be disheartened upon learning about it .
Therefore , some carriers will prefer to keep it a secret .
This essay will discuss whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should tell his or her relatives .
Some believe that a person 's genetic risks should be kept secret because it is considered personal information .
Most patients will be depressed after realising his or her conditions .
If a test shows that a patient has a genetic disease , he or she might not wish to inform the relatives , since that may dishearten his extended family .
Some will wish to keep it to themselves in hopes of ensuring that they will not bring in any pessimism into their family .
Furthermore , some will wish not to become a burden to anyone , since seeking medical attention is relatively costly .
Hence , some see it as considerate to keep the genetic risk of getting a disease a confidential .
On the other hand , others may think that it would be considerate to tell the relatives , who will have a higher chance of sharing the genetic risk .
Hence , they would be able to seek help from medical specialists , to find a cure , or to take some measures to lower the risk of getting the disease .
In all cases , it will depend on what the genetic diseases are , as well as the current medical technology .
For example , breast cancer is a genetic disease that can be cured if it is discovered in its early stages .
With the knowledge this genetic risk , relatives of this genetic disease would have a medical check-up , which might save them by discovering it at an earlier stage .
In conclusion , it would be considerate to inform the relatives of their risk of getting the same genetic disease .
Although there might be a lot of challenges along the way in seeking medical attention , such as the financial issue , everyone should have the right to know their family 's inherited medical conditions .
However , some think that it might be better for them to remain ignorant about it so that they can continue leading a happy life .
In addition , some may think that even knowing about having a genetic risk for a disease will add to their misery because there is nothing that they can do about it .
In the end , it depends on the individual and also the nature of the disease , but an individual should be obligated to inform the relatives if there are possibilities of curing or preventing it .
Genetic testing is a personal decision , with the knowledge that there is a possibility that one could be a carrier or not .
Those who are born into a family with a history of genetic disease should be allowed to undergo genetic testing , even if there is no risk at all .
Early examination is healthy , because it will cast away unwanted doubts and affect the psychology of those who are affected .
For a genetic risk carrier , there should be choice given with regards to informing his or her relatives .
Carriers should not be forced or obliged to do so , as it may negatively and drastically affect the emotions of the genetic risk carrier .
There must be rules to regulate and exercise personal freedom regarding this choice .
If the genetic risk carrier is a minor , then the decision of informing the relatives should be made in consideration with the patient 's parents or legal guardians .
Such patients are still emotionally volatile , and they may be unaware of the consequences of their genetic disorder .
Furthermore , the act of informing others without the consent of their parents or the patient herself could harm the psychological state of the affected family .
Thus , much thought needs to be put on the immediate family , since it could cause a chain of unwanted events from the patient or the family members .
On learning of such a genetic disorder running in their family , some family members may feel hurt regarding their family pride or reputation .
However , there is a sense of responsibility to inform their relatives since it is a genetic disorder .
There might be a possibility that the genetic disorder could also affect their immediate relatives and any other family members within the same family tree .
The importance of informing relatives of a genetic disease is vital , because it may help to raise awareness and prevention of the genetic disorder .
Also , this known information will help their relatives to make informed decisions , and to similarly undergo genetic testing .
For example , the knowledge that a genetic disorder is benign would be beneficial .
And if the results turn out to be otherwise , then the family can be prepared emotionally and psychologically to aid the carrier in making decisions .
In addition , the genetic risk carrier would be showered with moral and emotional support from their relatives , if that knowledge were shared with them .
Having support from relatives is vital , because they can ensure the genetic risk carrier that he or she is not alone in facing their illness , and it will certainly provide a morale boost because the whole family will share a common sentiment towards the prospect of the genetic disorder , which could be inherited by anyone in the family .
Therefore , the decision to inform relatives of a genetic disorder will be dependent on the situation and the background of the affected family , with the liberty of choice given to the carrier in making the decision of informing others .
A person with a disorder , regardless of whether it is a mental or a physical disorder , is always easily known by his or her family .
When it comes to genetic issues , however , it is not that simple anymore .
Inheritance of genetic disorders moves from generation to generation , but not all children show the relevant symptoms .
Sometimes a family with a risk for a genetic disorder may not be able to detect the potential harm inside their bodies because none of their family members have any observable symptoms of the disorder .
Because of this , when one of the family members happens to feel uncomfortable or unhealthy , he or she should be told whether the disorder in his or her body is a genetic risk or not .
Afterward , the carrier will face a serious ethical issue , which is whether to reveal the problem to his or her relatives .
If the symptoms belong to a child , the parent will surely be informed by the medics , and the whole family will stay alert to their bodies ' condition .
On the contrary , if the carrier is an adult who may choose whether to inform his or her relatives about the risk , the situation will be more complex .
One may think that if the carrier is a caring person who loves his family more than himself , there is no doubt that he will tell his family about the issue .
That is true , and of course it is the obligation of a family member to protect and take care of his family .
Thought of another way , if a child of the family knows that he may be a genetic risk carrier , and the risk may be passed to his child in the future , his whole life will be a dilemma .
And of course , he or she will consider not having any children after getting married , and the same thought may occur to the cousins , as well .
As a result , the family tree ends the moment the adult carrier announces his issue .
In China , the older generation with a traditional culture background will always think of having more children as well as grandchildren , in order for the family to grow more strongly .
The reason for this is that after WWII , the population of China decreased dramatically , and so the government encouraged the people to have more children .
During that period , if one of the family members discovered symptoms of a genetic disorder , he would surely fall into an ethical dilemma .
Medical technology during that time was not advanced enough to completely cure him .
He had to choose whether to protect his family , or to make his family more prosperous , but with a potential genetic risk .
As a result , he would have chosen not to undergo genetic disorder testing , and let the truth be hidden forever .
This kind of ethical issue can not be judged by others , because they will not understand the position and the duty of the carrier in the family .
In conclusion , people should think carefully of the consequences of telling their relatives about their genetic disorders .
It is an obligation for a carrier to inform his relatives , but it is also an obligation for a family member to grow his family .
Regardless , if the disorder is rarely fatal , or if it does not cause any inconvenience to the carrier , revealing the truth is always the right thing to do .
In my opinion , the carrier should tell his or her relatives about it .
One of the reasons why is because as a carrier , he or she needs mental support to go through the situation .
It will be hard for an individual to deal with the issue on her own .
By telling his or her family , in addition to being a support , they could also possibly help her to get alternative solutions to the problem that she were facing .
In addition to that , I believe that the strong bond we have with our family is the biggest pillar of support to the carrier .
Furthermore , because it is a genetic problem , it will be better for the carrier to inform his or her family , because other family members might experience the same thing .
By making sure that they are aware of this genetic problem , they could have a full check-up for themselves , and thus they could even prevent it from happening to themselves .
I find that it is important to inform others especially when it is contagious , since the carrier could prevent the disease from spreading out to society .
For every action there are always pros and cons .
I believe that some carriers will choose not to reveal their disease to their family members because they do not want to make them worry or feel uncomfortable or even ostracized by them .
Furthermore , because treatment could require a lot of money , the carrier might not want to be a burden in her family .
I could understand the feeling of the carrier .
He or she does not want to be the source of unhappiness in the family .
However , we will never know ahead of time whether these negative effects will happen if the carrier decides to tell his or her family of his or her condition .
In conclusion , I believe that it is better for the carrier to inform her family members about the issue .
The carrier should be honest with his or her feelings , and I think that it is the right of the family members to know what is going on in his or her life .
If anything bad happened to the carrier without him or her having informed the family members , it could result in huge regret .
On top of that , it is better to think about solutions for a problem with family members , because there are more heads to think about it , rather than thinking about it alone and struggling on your own .
In the end , I believe that mental or even monetary support from her family could help the carrier to fight against the genetic disease .
It is true enough that there are lots of cancer patients who were given a second choice to live as a normal person because they had strong mental support from their loved ones .
In my opinion , as long as we keep our minds healthy and strong , we can fight any disease as it comes to us , when we are fragile and weak .
As the technology has advanced , it has reached a stage whereby the advancement triggers some ethical dilemmas in relation to the actual use of the technology .
Genetic testing has been made possible , making it easy to tell if one is a carrier of a known genetic risk .
If used for a good purpose , it could prevent unnecessary unhappiness ; however , it could also make a situation worse by revealing who the carrier is in the family .
The question given is whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives . I think that the carrier should not be obligated to do so , because I believe that he or she has a right not to know .
Firstly , genetic testing is not something that is compulsory .
Of course , some people may do it to make their futures slightly happier ; however , the carrier , before the testing , can choose not to go for the test and simply live with the unknowns and accept the facts .
If he chooses to live with the uncertainty that the future holds and willingly accepts it , he could do that . This is something that has been 'normal ' to everyone in the past , since genetic testing was not possible .
It could be better for him or her this way .
Some people might say that it is a way to prevent giving birth to disabled children and causing them to suffer .
I personally think this is the right purpose of going through genetic testing , so that a family who can not afford to have a disabled child does not have to give birth to such a child and make the entire family suffer .
However , I believe that the carrier has the right not to be obligated to tell anyone , but has a responsibility to take action to prevent an ethical dilemma .
If the result turned out to be something that the carrier can not accept , then it would have been better not to know the truth .
I believe that even the carrier has the right not to know the actual facts .
After realizing the he or she is a carrier , the emotional damage may be hard to bear .
It could possibly cause a problem in a family and create more unhappiness in the family .
Overall , I believe that it entirely depends on the carrier to share the hard facts and face them with relatives , but still , he has no obligation to tell .
In fact , I strongly think that the carrier should weigh both the positive and negative consequences of taking the genetic test , and take an appropriate action given the results .
The emotional depression that the carrier might get , and the sense of guilt , can be expected , and could be a burden for the rest of his or her life .
On the other hand , without knowing about any genetic disorder and having to accept the fact of it , the family will stay positive and work together to overcome the disability .
I think the family will stay mentally healthy as it is , without having emotional stress .
It has been debated for years whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to inform his or her relatives .
Any individual at risk for a disorder has the right to undergo genetic testing , but whether the results should be shared with others , especially close family members or relatives , is a topic that is worth discussing .
This is an issue that needs to be addressed because a family-related ethical dilemma is involved .
In this essay , a few arguments will be made in support of the view that a carrier of a known genetic risk should tell his or her relatives .
When we were born , each of us was surrounded by our families and relatives , with them welcoming us to this new world .
We were crying hard , but we were not alone ; our families and relatives raised us .
Hence , they should be the people that we are grateful for , and the people with whom we would like to share joy .
In a case pertaining to a health issue or serious disorder , it may seem that there is no point in sharing , but this involves more than just sharing of bad news .
One definitely has the right to disclose his or her health issues to anyone , but it 's also one 's responsibility to inform family and close relatives .
When a health issue is related to genetic risk , we focus on the word " genetic " , which highlights the risk of passing the disorder down to the next generation .
Therefore , I would argue that it is obligatory for a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell his or her relatives in order to avoid any family-related ethical dilemmas that could be raised in the future .
Regardless of the fact that one may argue that it 's up to the individual whether to disclose such health issues or to keep them private , it 's certainly helpful to share with close relatives for a proper discussion of solutions .
By doing so , one will feel less stressed in facing such a risk of a disorder .
Relatives will certainly be supportive and show more care towards the carrier of a known genetic risk .
By informing them , the carrier is never alone in fighting the battle of such a risk of disorder .
On top of that , because the genetic risk may pass down to the next generation , it will involve more than just one family .
Therefore , I would agree to the existence of an obligation to tell the relatives of both parties when one is about to get married and have children .
This would avoid the rise of more family-related ethical dilemmas .
There are also a number of more intangible advantages that could support the stance of informing the relatives of the results of the test .
In conclusion , in order to avoid a family-related ethical dilemma , it is best for any carrier of a known genetic risk to inform his or her relatives .
The benefits of doing so outweigh the disadvantages .
More support must be provided about whether to inform the relatives , in order to give better direction when one is standing at such a junction .
The decision to undergo genetic testing can only be made by the individual at risk for a disorder .
This is the common law in society .
However , it raises a new question : should a carrier of a known genetic risk be obligated to tell his or her relatives ?
This issue has been discussed for a long time .
However , there are still many points of view .
Here , we are going to identify the advantages and disadvantages of the issue .
Firstly , I believe most of us will agree with the following sentence : " I would be anxious about a family member who told me that he or she was a carrier of a known genetic risk " .
Frequently , the intention of a carrier who does not want to tell their family is to continue their own life without the anxiety of their family .
It is obvious that it will be better for one person to be worried than for many to be .
However , many of the carriers are not strong enough to overcome the challenges alone .
With the families ' support , there would be more energy to fight against this demon .
This demon is not easily defeated , and requires much energy and psychological support .
Families give you the courage and support that you can not retrieve by yourself .
That is the most essential element for overcoming the challenges .
Besides that , the risk of a known genetic disease is serious enough that it can not be described .
This seriousness can be larger than our imagination .
Lying in bed for the rest of our life , and even dying immediately — these are consequences which we can not imagine .
Families are the dearest things in our lives .
Without their concern and support , we would have a hard time continuing .
They play an important role in our lives which can not be replaced .
A known genetic risk can also critically affect the next generation .
Therefore , it is our responsibility to tell relatives in order to prevent undesired consequences .
Generally , the clinic or hospital will not tell the carrier 's families without the carrier 's agreement .
It is the ethic of hospital staff to keep secrets of all patients .
We can not blame them for being liable for the undesired consequences .
However , the hospital can provide a counselor to advise the carrier about actions that can be taken .
Therefore , this kind of circumstance will not occur again and again .
It is a method that benefits two parties , which is a win-win situation .
In conclusion , a carrier of a known genetic risk is encouraged to tell his or her relatives about the known genetic risk .
However , there may be some special cases that are hard to define .
Thus , advice from the hospital plays an important role .
The carrier is responsible for balancing his or her own interests and those of the family and even society .
It is a hard decision to make , but the most appropriate choice will create great circumstances for the carrier and his or her family in the future .
Given the risk of having a genetic disorder , many individuals have made the decision to undergo genetic testing .
Each individual that is diagnosed as a genetic risk carrier faces an ethical problem : they can choose to warn their relatives about their risk of being a carrier of the same genetic risk .
Or , they can choose to keep silent .
From my point of view , a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives , for the following reasons .
First of all , from the perspective of human rights , a genetic risk carrier should not be obligated to tell the truth to others .
This diagnosis can be regarded as a privacy issue .
They may not want this fact to negatively influence their life ; instead , they may want to keep it secret , keeping others from knowing about it .
This is reasonable since the exposure of the truth of being a carrier may cause them to be discriminated against .
Second , the relatives of the carrier can also choose to have their own genetic testing done , regardless of the diagnosis of the carrier .
When people want to check whether they are genetic risk carriers , they can consult their own doctor about it .
If they do not want to think about it too much , and view the whole issue as a bother , they may just ignore the possibility .
However , if a diagnosed carrier is obligated to tell his or her relatives , the relatives will be forced to learn about their own increased chances of being genetic risk carriers .
They will then be forced to accept the truth m which may make their subsequent lives miserable .
Many people may argue that fulfilling this obligation may result in saving the lives of a carrier 's relatives , because of the larger opportunity provided with an earlier diagnosis .
However , this is not exactly true when other factors are taken into consideration , including psychological and social effects .
If one such relative is told that he or she may have a higher risk of getting sick , he or she may be scared of the unknown ; partners , colleagues , or a spouse may choose to leave them , and many other situations may occur , ruining that relative 's life .
On the other hand , as stated above , a person who is prepared to face the result can individually choose to undergo the genetic testing .
In summary , a carrier of a known genetic risk should make their own decision about whether to tell their relatives .
This should be accepted from the positions of human rights , the freedom of acceptance of relatives , and for many other social reasons .
Making it into an obligation will restrict the choice of carriers and will bring a lot of confusion to their relatives .
A person 's knowledge that he or she is a carrier of a genetic disorder causes a greater dilemma than getting the disorder .
I agree that a carrier of a known genetic risk is obligated to tell his or her relatives .
There are four reasons why people do n't have to be shy about sharing their problems regarding a genetic disorder .
Firstly , the carrier and his or her family can take precautions ; physically , by taking action to reduce the chance of it being passed to offspring , and mentally , should that action fail to prevent it from being inherited .
Many syndromes such as Down 's Syndrome and Taylor Syndrome can be prevented if the mother takes proper medication and does n't consume harmful goods during pregnancy .
This information may not be known to the mother if she does n't tell her relatives about her condition .
If more people that know about her problem , there will be more channels to receive information .
If all efforts have been made and the children still suffer from the syndrome , then the family has to accept this fact and do whatever they can to bring about a good environment for their children 's growth .
This would not be the parent 's fault , because there is always a chance of the gene being inherited .
So , they have to also prepare mentally .
Secondly , treatment and medication for genetic diseases cost a lot .
Albinism is one example .
People with albinism have sensitive skin , and need regular treatment .
Unlike people with a high proportion of skin pigment , people with albinism are prone to sunburn and other skin diseases .
If they do n't treat their body well , such as by using sunglasses or wearing sunscreen outdoors , the chances are good that they will get skin problems that may also lead to cancer .
When you suffer from cancer , the cost for medication is very expensive .
To prevent the bigger problem from happening , it takes a lot of effort in taking care of your body .
If the carrier does n't tell his or her relatives , it may be too late to get their support and prepare financially .
Thirdly , some diseases are not noticeable and may lead to serious health problems .
One such disease is sickle cell trait .
Usually people are not aware if they carry the sickle cell gene and this may lead to circulatory problems such as blood blocking .
If the parents know that one of them is a carrier and disclose that information to their relatives , they can bring their children to undergo genetic testing , and do n't need to be ashamed about it , because it is for the sake of their children 's health .
Fourthly , it is important for the parents to provide a mental boost for their children with a genetic disorder .
When their children become teenagers , many social problems may arise .
People , including friends , often mock you for your conditions .
A strong mental condition and conviction must be built from within , with the help of the closest ones .
If not their family , then who else is there that is willing to do that ?
It is not a heavy job for the family if they have prepared mentally first by disclosing the information of the probability that their children may suffer from the genetic disorder .
In this modern world , technologies have improved a lot compared with last century .
Particularly , in the medical field , there has been a great improvement in many treatments for many formerly incurable diseases , and genetic testing is one of the methods which have been used to diagnose an individual at risk for a genetic disorder .
The medical authorities claimed that only the individual who is at risk for a genetic disorder can make the decision to undergo genetic testing .
However , once a test has been conducted and the results are known , a family-related ethical dilemma is born .
The question is whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should tell his or her relatives .
In my opinion , the carrier of a known genetic risk has to tell his or her relatives about this .
This is because his or her relatives have the right to know .
As many people realize , a genetic disorder can be related to the carrier 's relatives ; that is , one of the family members being at risk for a genetic disorder means that other family members also have almost the same risk of having it , so this problem should be treated seriously by the family .
Every family member has their human right to know what is going on with them .
If they do not even know that they are at risk for a genetic disorder , how can they have their right ?
For instance , John is informed by his doctor that he is at risk for a genetic disorder , but he does not tell his sibling , James , about this .
Although telling James about this is horrible to some extent , he should know what will be likely to be going on for him .
This might be beneficial for his future if he is aware of the risk of having this disorder .
The next point is that telling relatives can raise their awareness of having the same genetic disorder , preventing certain genetic disorders from affecting them .
Genetic disorders are innate , but the great improvement of medical treatment makes it possible for humans to prevent the disorder or to reduce the negative effects of the disorder for themselves .
In addition , doctors usually quote a statement , " Prevention is better than cure " ; this gives us the idea that preventing a disorder from happening has far more advantages than curing it .
Awareness of having a genetic risk may help in diagnosing a genetic disorder for a person , and therefore , this may make the prevention of a certain disorder possible .
For example , hypertension is partially due to genetic factors , but environmental factors also play an important role .
People who are aware of having such a disorder can prevent the disorder from happening by adopting a healthy lifestyle , including having a balanced diet and exercising for at least 30 minutes every day .
To sum up , a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
It is their human right to know about it , and it may also save their lives by preventing the disorder from happening .
Together with the advancement of technology over the past decades , medical advancement has increased exponentially and further enhancements are still constantly continuing . Empowered with advanced medical knowledge , doctors are able to diagnose and undertake genetic testing for patients to help them prevent and take necessary steps to protect their lives . However , once a test has been conducted and the results are known , the question of whether to disclose the results to his or her relatives becomes a challenging issue to both patient and doctor . I feel a strong urge in support of the obligation to inform a patient 's relatives .
As it is a genetic risk , the patient 's next-of-kin might have a high chance of carrying the risk , and hence the need to inform their relatives is important so that necessary prevention actions could be taken before unforeseen circumstances might occur . For example , if you are the only child in a family and you are suffering from a genetic disease , such that the genetic trait might be passed on to the next generation if you have a child , letting your family members be aware of the situation would lessen family stresses from them forcing you to settle down and have children . However , social ethical issues like discrimination and privacy are the biggest concerns and potential barriers to enforcing patients or doctors disclosing information to patient s ' relatives . It challenges confidentiality and privacy principles . Currently , under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ( HIPAA ) in the United States , there is no legal obligation to disclose information to relatives ; instead , it is up to the patient to disclose to their family members . Early disclosure to family members brings about positive reactions and prevention , as in the case of Angelina Jolie , who chose to disclose information and underwent treatment to reduce the risk of breast cancer significantly ( to under five percent ) . I still can recall her reason for disclosing her own story , which was that she did not want to live under the shadow of cancer .
However , there are still people against the decision of revealing private information . As in the case of Alzheimer patients , it is up to the patient whether to disclose information . However , research has shown that doctors have tried to interpret who , how , and whom the Alzheimer disease will be disclosed , in order to minimise the potential negative impact to family members ( Dementia Today , 2012 ) .There are associations that provide help to Alzheimer patients , like the Alzheimer 's Association ( Alzheimer 's Association , 1980 ) . Although there are still thousands of genetic risk diseases out there that might not be receiving help and support from everyone , the need to receive immediate understanding and support from family members is a basic form of help that patients need during their difficult time .
In conclusion , the state should have passed a legal bill to provide information to doctors that determine to what extent a doctor should opt to reveal to relatives the genetic disease , and in which situations it is open to the patient 's decision . In addition , the state could also encourage the creation of assistance schemes to provide necessary help to needy patients to encourage them to open up for their own benefit and that of their family members . Although they may face challenges from social and ethical issues , in the long term , with appropriate encouragement and aid from the government , more individuals would have a different view of acceptance , and would take appropriate measurements to protect their own health and that of their loved ones .
Nowadays , study in genetics has gone further and further due to high-velocity technological advancement .
Not long ago , the human genome project sponsored by several large multinational corporations was started .
In comparison , in the field of genetic testing ( which enables people to be aware of the risk of a possible genetic disorder ) , where the technology has long been very mature , an even more popular topic arises .
While most people agree that each individual has his own right to decide whether to undergo a genetic test or not , they have different views one whether it is the patient 's responsibility or freedom to share the result with his or her relatives .
In my opinion , patients who are carriers of some known genetic risk are supposed to share the truth with their family members .
Admittedly , it is a social obligation to be responsible for the lives of other people .
For all of society , it is a duty .
Take H1N1 as an example ; all the people in Singapore , including students at school , travelers at the Changi Airport , workers in the office , and passengers on the street are forced by law to take their temperature and report the result to the relevant government authority in charge .
To those family members who care about them , it is also a moral obligation .
How can they not tell their loved ones who they really are , and thereby put their loved ones in danger ?
The basis of a family is that everyone trusts and loves each other with no doubts .
Without trust and love , there is no difference between a family and a bunch of strangers living together .
Hence , it is essential to tell their family members about the risk of their genetic disorder , both as a social responsibility , and as a favor to preserve the family .
Moreover , telling their family members the truth is the fastest and easiest way to get their support .
Without the support of loved ones , a patient 's life is no better than death .
Family members , as one of the closest groups of people from whom they can get comfort , are a crucial factor for them to successfully get over any possible troubles resulting from a genetic disorder .
A study of New York University in 2010 showed that patients with family members nearby generally recovered 2–4 days faster than those taken care of by professional nurses .
Even for those patients with terminal diseases , the duration of their survival is 30 % longer due to family support .
Some people may say that telling the truth may raise some unnecessary doubts and panics which will endanger family harmony .
While every family needs to go through occasional troublesome situations , the more troubles that a family has gone through together , the greater the bond that will be established between the family members as well as the greater amount of trust , love , and understanding .
Hence , for a family in which every member is truly believing in each other and loving each other , all these troubles are just tests to make them stronger .
As in the lyrics of Kelly Clarkson , what does n't kill you make you stronger .
Being in an Asian society where genetic testing is not a common practice , I do think that it is the choice of the patient whether he or she wants to tell his or her relatives about his or her disease .
Having the courage to take the genetic test and then to inform their relatives about the risk that they may have , may result in people being judgmental , even while it is actually just a risk , and not a confirmed case .
Furthermore , since it is the person 's genes that are affected , he has the right to determine with whom he wants to share the information .
Nevertheless , while I feel that a carrier should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives about the genetic risk , I would like to suggest that the person at least share the information with his or her potential partner ( husband or wife ) , since the individual 's genetic risk may affect their future children .
Many people in our society are not well informed about many genetic diseases , and many of them will be likely to judge , or at least to differentiate those who have genetic diseases , since they feel that the patients are abnormal or ' weird ' .
This is because many relate genetic diseases to those such as Bubble-Boy disease , autism , or Down 's syndrome .
Many who are affected with those diseases have different physical characteristics compared to those without the genetic diseases .
While we do know that we should not discriminate against them based on their limitations , many people still do it , with or without them realizing it .
In this particular case , we are discussing whether a person should tell his relatives about him having a RISK of a particular genetic disease .
It is normal for people to demand for a fair and similar treatment to what others receive , and therefore it is normal for people to try to keep some of their secrets or personal issues to themselves , in case some people judge them or treat them differently . Many people really love to hear what they want to hear , and therefore may just ignore the word ' risk ' and assume that the person has suffered from the disease .
To prevent that from happening , I do feel that it is up to the person whether he wants to share the information with his family since his family may either be paranoid or judge him and act differently .
Especially when it is just a risk , the option is really his , since he is not an actual sufferer .
There may be some people who say that it is necessary to tell the family members about the risk since some of them may be affected ; while I do think that this view has a point , how much you can trust your family regarding this issue may also be something to consider .
Maybe we can trust our immediate family members , but can we really trust all the other relatives ?
Furthermore , since the genetic risk or genetic disease is a very personal issue , it is up to the person to tell the relatives about it .
However , as I wrote earlier , it is better for the person to share the potential risk at least with his or her partner , since his genetic risk may later affect his children .
This information needs to be at least acknowledged by the other party before they make the decision to get married and have children .
There may be situations when both the husband and wife are carriers , in which case they should not have any children , since their children may not be able to survive after they are born .
Or , in a less extreme case , the child may be disabled .
This piece of information does play a role in family planning matters ; therefore , although no one is obliged to tell about their genetic risk to anyone , it should be encouraged for them to tell it to their future partner .
In conclusion , whether or not the carrier wants to tell his relatives regarding his genetic risk , the choice is his , because it is his own gene and he has the full rights to it .
He may have considerations beyond worry of being judged , and sharing may result in making his family worry for nothing ; no matter what choice he makes , we need to respect it , and we have no right in saying that he must tell his relatives about it .
We all know that life is priceless and that we have no right to judge a person 's death .
With improvements in technology , a new life possessing a genetic risk can be detected .
Genetic risk refers to the chance of inheriting a disorder or disease .
As such , an entirely new dilemma is born : should a carrier of a known genetic risk be obligated to tell his or her relatives ?
This essay will discuss the reasons why the relatives are obligated to be informed that their children have a genetic risk .
One of the reasons that the parents should be informed is that they have to decide whether they are capable of raising a child with a genetic risk .
A child with a genetic risk may not have the ability to work and build a family with others , and most of the time , they are not accepted by the majority .
They may not be able to enjoy the kind of life normal people can enjoy .
This competitive world is cruel to those who are not able to survive .
Parents and relatives have to work longer than expected to endlessly foster their child if he or she is not able to foster him- or herself .
The situation may become worse if the child has diseases like cancer or heart disease , which means that the parents have more heavy baggage called " medication fees '' .
Not only the child , but also the entirely family , will suffer .
It is still early for parents to decide whether they can care for a new life that is not able to work and may suffer pain his entire life .
The other reason that parents should know whether the baby they have is a carrier of genetic risk is for a nation 's good .
There are always newspaper reports that a newborn baby has been abandoned at a hospital , after the parents realized the baby has diseases that need a huge amount of money to treat .
Countries like Singapore are short of manpower to contribute to the nation .
Every year the government has to spend a lot to help the disabled with medical subsidies and special schools to educate them .
Without increasing number of disabled people in a nation , the government is able to concentrate development in other ways , like military and education .
As citizens of a nation , they have the responsibility to support their country in many ways .
Moreover , in the world we are living in today , many abortions are conducted in hospitals every day .
It is easier for people to accept it morally .
Therefore , I believe parents have the right to know the health of their child .
Many people may object to the theory that all people have the right to enjoy the world , particularly religious people .
However , the problem is , will people really enjoy their lives if they have to stay in a hospital every day , with all the needles and endless pain ?
Parents know what is best for their children ; thus , they will make the right decision after they have been informed .
Also , humans should improve the medical field in order to prevent this tragedy from happening .
I think a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
Genetic testing is a personal choice .
One should have full control of his or her information and it is his or her right to decide whether or not to disclose it to someone else .
As far as I am concerned , when a couple is going to have babies , they are going to run a few tests and see whether there could be some genetic diseases .
The results are disclosed to the husband and the wife .
This is not the case I am talking about here .
The most obvious reason for those who argue for this opinion is that the relatives of the carrier are at high risk of carrying these diseases .
They have the right to know whether they are at risk .
Also , telling them the result can let them largely reduce the cost for multiple testing .
They can also take immediate measures to reduce the possibility of having this disease .
If a person has a disease C that might be a result of gene A , he runs a test and knows that he has the gene AA .
he runs a test and know that he has the gene AA .
This means both of his parents have gene A , and they are both at high risk of having disease C. They could save the cost of running two separate tests to see whether they are at high risk of having disease C. If he runs a test and knows that he has the gene Aa , this means that one of his parents has gene A and the cost of one testing could be saved .
this means that one of his parents has gene A and the cost of one testing could be saved .
His relatives can then take measures , if this disease can somehow be prevented , to stop this disease from taking their lives .
However , this can also be achieved from personal choice .
One can choose to tell one 's relatives if they are at risk .
Most people care about their relatives ; if there is no serious consequence of telling them , I assume most of them will tell their relatives to be careful .
One might also choose to hint or encourage their certain relatives to run a gene test , if they are concerned about negative consequences that come up when they disclose their genetic results .
There are possible negative consequences that people might face if they disclose their genetic results to their relatives .
If a person is obliged to tell his or her relatives , he or she might be discriminated against by those who do not carry this gene .
He or she might even be advised not to get married or have children .
For example , if an unmarried person has gene Aa and gene aa is sufficient for a very serious disease , then
after he takes the test and is obliged to tell his relatives , everyone would know that he is a carrier .
If all the married couples go run a test and learn they are not carriers , they might subconsciously see him as different and worry that he will find a wife who will carry this gene as well .
Third , it is hard to define relatives .
If a gene runs in a family , and one of the family members tests positive , whom does he need to tell ?
If that is a big family , is he obliged to tell everyone ?
Spouses usually have very close relationships . If person tells his family that he has this gene , his uncle may tell his wife that he needs to run a test because his nephew has the disease .
However , the wife is not at risk of having this disease .
Then the wife might tell her mother , who likes to gossip on her way to the theatre .
In less than a week , half of the town knows that this person has a genetic risk , and that his entire family might be at risk .
Then nobody wants to marry that person , or his relatives .
This is the potential consequence if one does not have full control of his information , especially when the party that he is obliged to disclose his information to is a potentially large group ( such as relatives ) .
In conclusion , a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
Carriers of known genetic risks should be obligated to tell their relatives .
Nowadays , people not only pursue happiness in their own lives , but also a better future for the next generation .
Since modern technology is so advanced , people can decide to undergo genetic testing to find out whether they carry genetic risks that could affect the next generation .
The ethical dilemma is whether people should be responsible for telling their relatives if they carry a known genetic risk .
In my opinion , it is quite obvious that there is a responsibility to tell family and relatives .
There are two basic reasons .
First , it is important to be responsible for your well-being and the health of your relatives . The second one is being responsible for future generations .
Informing your relatives and families about your genetic risk is good for your well-being and health of your relatives .
If you are carrying a genetic risk , then there is a large possibility that your relatives , like parents or siblings , are also carrying the same genetic risk .
The genetic risk that you carry may or may not affect your health and put you in danger .
If you have n't undergone genetic testing , luck and fate dictate what will happen to you and your relatives .
However , if you have undergone testing and know that you are a carrier , you owe a responsibility to your whole family .
Even though you can not eliminate the risk completely , you can at least try to avoid developing the disease .
As for your family members who are more likely to be affected , they can go to the hospital for regular checkups .
Therefore , it is your responsibility to tell your relatives to get prepared to fight the disease and take steps to prevent it .
Furthermore , by telling the truth that you are carrying a genetic risk , you are also being responsible to future generations .
If your wife is not aware of the truth and gives birth to a baby , it is possible that your child will also be a carrier of the same genetic risk .
As a parent , you would not be acting responsibly to your progeny , since you would have allowed the genetic risk to be passed down from generation to generation .
However , if you tell the truth to your wife and relatives , you let them make an informed choice about whether to have a child or not .
And if you still decided to have a baby , since technology is advancing so rapidly , it is possible that the practice of altering genes would be perfected and widely used in the future .Then , you could choose to have babies and give them a brighter future .
This is the responsibility of being a parent .
In my opinion , this seems to be the main purpose of undergoing genetic testing in the first place .
In conclusion , once you have undergone genetic testing and are aware of carrying some specific genetic risk , you have responsibilities to your relatives , yourself , and your progeny to tell your family the truth .
To tell or not to tell
Imagine this : you decided to undergo genetic testing and learned the result .
You found out that you actually were a genetic risk carrier .
Then it became worrisome about whether you needed to tell your relatives , who might carry this genetic risk as well .
There are many things you need to consider .
This choice may have a huge impact on their lives .
What should you do ?
Tell them or keep this secret until you die ?
Many people feel that we should tell our relatives since we really care about their health .
For example , diabetes is a kind of genetic disease .
If we learned that we were carrying this genetic risk , it would be best for us to tell our family members because they might carry it as well .
If we told them , they might start paying more attention to their daily habits , like eating less sugary food .
It is especially important for young people to know .
The earlier we tell them , the better habits they can learn , which will be better for the rest of their lives .
What 's more , they may also undergo genetic testing to see whether they are carrying it or not , which is also better for them .
However , some people may argue , why would we want to interfere with their lives ?
Sometimes it is extremely hard for them to accept this news , especially if they learn that they or their descendants may have a severe disease like an untreatable blood disease .
Imagine that you are living a normal life but suddenly one day your relative comes and tells you that actually there is some possibility that you may develop some disease in the future . How are you going to feel ?
It may affect your daily life and you would think about it every day .
You would become so anxious that you could not focus on anything .
At the same time , there is also a chance that the genetic test results are not correct , which means that our relatives would be wasting their lives worrying about this untruth and we would actually have brought more trouble to them .
Personally I feel that we still should own our responsibility to tell them the situation .
Since this will really affect their lives , we should try to handle it positively .
We can not let it go .
We should know that although we may affect their lives , we can still let them make correct choices in the future .
It is only after we tell them will that they start paying attention to their health .
They will consider whether to have a baby because of this genetic problem and they will start finding ways to try to prevent their baby from also carrying this genetic risk .
They also have a choice about whether to undergo the genetic test or not themselves .
Maybe after we tell them , they will go for it and learn more about themselves .
Even though it will have a huge impact on their lives , we should recognize that we need to tell them and help them , because they are our loved ones .
A genetic risk carrier should be obliged to tell
Genetic testing is conducted when an individual is at risk of some possible disease .
Once the test is done , whether the results should be open to his or her relatives has caused extensive controversy .
Some say it is an invasion of the carrier 's privacy and this information should be protected .
He or she has the right not to tell anyone .
However , in my opinion , it is the obligation of a knowing genetic risk carrier to tell their relatives about their situation .
This essay will illustrate two aspects of this stance .
First of all , it can be a warning to the patient 's family members to be aware of the disease that they may have .
As we all know , genetic risk carriers are likely to share genes with their family members .
Once one person in the family is found to be carrying a genetic risk , other members in his or her family may also be at risk .
Some diseases may not show symptoms until the carrier reaches a certain age .
Therefore , telling relatives about the situation may avoid a lot of trouble in the future and give them time for proper treatment .
Sometimes lives may even be saved if they are told early enough to conduct timely treatment .
In consideration of the other family members , relatives should be informed .
Secondly , telling relatives can prevent genetic disease from being passed to the next generation .
Carriers should let their spouses know about their situation before marriage .
They need to ask for a doctor 's advice before they plan to have a baby .
Some genes will only be passed down to boys rather than girls , some are the opposite .
If a carrier refuses to tell the truth to his or her spouse , another life may be at risk of inheriting a genetic disease .
Some years ago , I read a true story in the newspaper .
A couple in China had a five year old son .
Their son unfortunately fell ill and he was diagnosed with a kind of genetic disease that was very serious .
They were told that the wife 's family was carrying the polygenetic disorder and it could only be passed down to boys rather than girls .
Therefore their son inherited the genetic disease .
The wife had known about the polygenetic disorder before getting married and she did not tell her husband .
The son died after one year 's treatment and after that the couple got divorced .
If the wife had not hidden the truth and asked for the doctor 's advice before they had the baby , this tragedy would have been prevented .
In a nutshell , the carrier of a known genetic risk has the responsibility to tell their relatives .
On the one hand , informing relatives will let the carrier 's family members know about the diseases they may have so that they can perform treatment in time , if possible .
On the other hand , hiding the truth may allow the disease to be passed to the next generation .
Nowadays , with the advancement of technology , it is easy to do genetic testing .
We can not deny that genetic testing helps people a lot when they face the prospect of disorders .
However , I think that genetic information is a person 's private matter , which should be protected by the law .
Therefore , I believe a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell their family .
There are three reasons , as follows .
First , genetic information is personal and should also be private , like a bank card PIN .
Other people should not be told without the person 's permission even if they are related .
The government should make a law to protect this kind of privacy .
Once someone 's genetic information is told to other people ,
they may know about that person 's potentially disabling diseases .
They may develop a bias against this person and even abandon him or her .
Because people do not have the ability to choose their genes , they should not be thought badly of because of defective genes .
Therefore , I think that regardless of the genes or whether the genes match with their parents , that information should not be told to anyone , even that person 's family .
Secondly , the carrier of a known genetic risk may destroy the family peace and even destroy the relationship between children and adults .
Once their family members find out , they may not have a relationship with that person anymore .
However happy they were before , some barrier would appear which would gradually destroy the family .
The relationship between parents and their children should not be tested based on genetics ; it is something much deeper and tighter .
The parents give knowledge and love to their children and feel happy with their children 's company .
Children rely on their parents to live .
When they grow up , they take care of their elderly parents to thank them for their dedication .
The relationship between parents and children is based on love and dedication .
No one wants to see a broken family because of a genetic risk carrier .
Therefore , I think carriers of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell their family .
Finally , the technology of genetic testing is still not very mature yet .
There is a chance of false results .
If a false result was found by the doctor , the family and children may be sad and struggle for their whole lives .
Therefore I think the carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her family and relatives .
Considering the people 's privacy and the existence of false results , for the peace of the family , I support that genetic risk information should not be released to a carrier 's family without that person 's permission .
Carriers of a Known Genetic Risk Should be Obligated to Tell Their Relatives
With the development of the medical technology , more and more illness are discovered to have a genetic component .
People can discover whether they carry a diseased gene by undergoing a genetic test .
If there is no problem , that would be wonderful .
However , not everybody is so lucky to not carry any diseased genes .
Therefore , once people find that they carry the diseased genes , they should be responsible for telling their relatives , at least their immediate family members .
It may be awkward and embarrassing for a person to tell relatives that they are a carrier of a known genetic risk ,
but since they are all from the same family and the same forefather , they share some part of the same genes .
Therefore there is nothing to be shy about or be afraid of .
If a person tells their relatives that they carry a diseased gene , their relatives can go to the hospital to check whether they also carry the same gene .
Then , the relatives can prepare themselves to prevent the disease from occurring
and prevent the disease from being passed to their offspring .
If relatives carry that diseased gene , they can help and share their experience with that person and teach them how to communicate with others about the issue .
If they get married , they must tell their partner that they carry the diseased gene .
Then they can have a healthy baby with the help of the doctors .
Or else , if they hold back the genetic risk , they may have an unhealthy baby , potentially leading to the death of the baby or end of their marriage .
I saw a story on TV about
a couple that could not have a child for a long time . Their parents were anxious and asked them to go to the hospital to check for a problem .
After coming back from the hospital , the man told his parents that the problem was that he carried a diseased gene so that he could not ever have a baby .
The woman did not know the test result , but she overheard the discussion and decided to divorce her husband .
After getting the divorce certificate , the man showed her the test result , which said that the woman carried the diseased gene instead of the man .
At that time , the woman knew how much her husband loved her but she ruined her happiness .
Tears accomplished nothing .
People can not avoid carrying the diseased genes that they were born with .
However , they can prevent the diseased genes from being inherited by their children .
Telling their relatives that they have a risk of carrying the diseased gene can cause their family members to bond more closely and also avoid many risks and conflicts .
Genetic testing has become a beneficial way to protect individuals at risk for a genetic disorder .
However , a family-related ethical dilemma arises : is it right to tell a carrier 's family once the test has been conducted and the results are known ?
I am inclined to believe that their relatives have a right to know the result .
The answer is simply that everyone , especially one 's family , has the right to know the truth .
Though it is said that sharing the results of genetic testing involves emotional and social risks , while the potential negative impacts of the risk still exist , the consequence will be significant if other family members do not know the test results .
Then they would be unable to have a suitable method to protect themselves and make emotional preparations .
Take Angelina Jolie for example . She is famous but she still revealed the truth about her genetic risk for developing breast cancer .
Nothing is too bad if you know how to look at the bright side with hope .
People may feel angry , depressed , or even guilty about their results .
In some cases , there may be tension between a carrier and their family because the result is also related to the others ' risk .
However , I believe that this is a normal reaction to the situation .
In addition , though it is possible in some cases that the carrier and their family may undergo specific discrimination in employment and their social life , how can people face more dramatic tragedies , such as sickness or death , if they can not overcome this harsh situation ?
Life is hard but people can not blame it for being unfair .
It is just because they do not become strong enough to overcome the hard times .
Furthermore , living with a secret is not a good feeling . If the situations of other relatives worsen , the carrier would feel guilty and depressed .
Moreover , the truth can not be hidden forever and the longer it is kept secret , the more shocking and upsetting it will be when it is revealed .
As a result , it is in the interests of the carriers and their relatives to disclose the genetic testing result .
Last but not least , even though genetic testing is a personal matter , telling the result to one 's family can help them improve and develop understanding and sympathy for each other , as well as promote awareness of taking care of everyone 's health .
This plays an important role in the possibility that relatives can overcome the discrimination of society and anxiety about the risks .
In a nutshell , I believe that people should be obliged to tell their relatives about genetic testing results for the good of their health .
It can be very difficult for them but it is necessary for the carriers and their family .
Emotional preparations and the ways in which a carrier explains their genetic condition are important so that they can convey the correct information to their relatives and guide them to conduct a similar genetic testing , if necessary .
The Impact Of Social Media
Social media plays a vital important role in our lives today .
It is almost impossible for us to keep away from it .
I started getting involved with Facebook one year ago , when I had just arrived in Singapore .
Now , I have more than 500 friends on Facebook and I 'm buried under hundreds of updates every day .
We keep up with each other 's updates through social media .
For example , if we change our phone numbers , we no longer need to notify each friend individually .
Instead , we can write a post and tag our friends to inform them of this kind of change .
And if you are not on it , you will just get lost .
In certain aspects , social media has given us many conveniences .
It is becoming even more convenient than talking on the phone , since it is free .
We discuss everything we like and we have more personal space . Our friends also have more access to know what we are doing and what we like .
Also , we get a chance to talk to famous people , like celebrities , and learn more about their lives .
In China , a lot of government organizations have open blogs to communicate with people , like firefighters , police stations and so on .
Social media allows them to explain or inform people about what is going on .
Actually , lots of rescuing jobs are done with the help of social media , like looking for people who have gotten lost and so on .
With more convenient and personal communications , the relationship between the government and its people has largely improved .
What 's more , various cultures can be shown to us through social media .
We can learn more about news and culture through social media .
In this aspect , social media has shortened the distance between us .
However , since social media is so convenient , advanced and interesting , we have fewer chances and it less important to talk face to face .
Even when we gather together , more people find themselves with less to talk about than before and choose to dig through their social media feeds instead .
When we are far away from one another , social media makes it seem as if we were in front of each other ; sometimes when we are by each others ' sides , social media makes us seem further away .
This feeling makes people 's relationships less stable , secure and reliable than before .
Besides , there are more people sharing pictures of their yummy food or traveling experiences .
To some extent , this makes our life seem more luxurious .
For myself , I long to visit some places after seeing the beautiful pictures taken by my friends .
Sometimes I can not even sleep well because of the excitement .
Social media makes our lives move so fast that it leaves us less time to think about our lives .
Social media is becoming more important and we need to think more about how to make it serve us better .
Interpersonal skills , like any other skills , require practice .
Besides that , time is required to develop and adapt these skills .
The burgeoning of social media has definitely had its time but , like all good things , it is better in moderation .
Convenience and efficiency are two very important benefits of social media .
With millions of users connected at any one time , any information is readily available for their perusal .
This improves the connectivity between users .
For example , one is able to send notifications and other information over the web that we once needed to send in hardcopy , and the process takes seconds .
The recipient will then receive the information almost immediately , depending on the quality of the network .
This convenience can be perceived as happening almost in real time .
Next , communication is also greatly improved .
In the past , most communication was done by one of many methods including telegrams , snail mail and poor quality voice calls .
With the introduction of applications such as Skype and Facetime , everyone can put aside most of the olden days ' communication methods .
In addition to transmitting voices , a web camera can also be affixed to emulate a ' real ' interaction with expressions and gestures .
Communication would have taken a different turn without easily available social media .
However , it is a good practice not to intensively use social media all the time .
Intimate interaction greatly lacks in social media interactions , particularly physical touch .
Having to meet and interact to talk allows one to be closer to the listener .
It involves a level of dynamic interaction that is coordinated by the cerebral cortex of the brain .
Unlike social media , where most interaction is done with thinking and typing .
As a result , one does not train the skills necessary for proper interpersonal relations .
It is also entirely incorrect to fault social media alone for the lack of interpersonal skills .
Howard Garner studied different types of intelligence in people and stated that interpersonal intelligence is a type of skill on its own - some have it , some do not .
Howard Garner mentioned that the different types of intelligence could be charted , by using tests , and ranked .
Fundamentally , those who scored a lower ranking for interpersonal skills were more likely to stumble when these skills were needed .
Even though social media is not necessarily bad , it must be used appropriately , whether for work , family , or friends .
The type of use must also be noticed : informing , interacting , discussion , or something else .
The amount of physical space separating the parties must also be considered .
For people who live very far from one another , intensive use of social media is justified .
Those who live within the same community should at least try to meet up and not use social media as their primary source of communication .
At the same time , social media improves interpersonal skills through dynamic interactions between individuals in real time .
The addition of physical presence and touch could build a better rapport between people interacting through social media .
Recently , the rise of social media has helped people to have closer connections with each other . It is a more convenient and cheaper way to be in touch compared with face-to-face meetings .
In my opinion , social media websites such as Twitter and Facebook will not affect the chance for people to have face-to-face contact and thus negatively affects interpersonal skills .
On the other hand , it may even increase the chance of having face-to-face contact with other people .
First of all , social media networks have large user bases , and they help link people from different parts of the world .
In the days before social networks , people might not have had the chance to meet others from different countries .
The people that they knew might have been limited to only the people they met in their daily life , like classmates and coworkers .
Therefore , social networks bring more and more connections between people and gives them a chance to chat with people they did not know before . This helps develop their interpersonal skills .
Secondly , even though social networks allow people to chat online but not face to face , they may still decide to meet their online friends face to face in their daily life .
In this case , social networks help people to talk more frequently .
For example , if social networks did not exist , business people would need to meet each other face to face , which is time consuming . Even meeting about business that is not very important still wastes a lot of time in travel .
However , social networks let people meet and chat much more easily . They can even use video chat and create group chats to talk to multiple parties at the same time .
Nowadays , even some companies conduct online video interviews with their applicants as it saves time and money .
Social networks may also have some negative impacts on people .
The largest negative impact is that , because of social networks , some people start to use and rely on the internet every minute of every day .
They take too much time using online social networks and therefore do not have time to interact with people in their real lives .
It not only affects interpersonal skills , but it also bad for people 's health if they spend too much time on social media .
In addition , social networks can leak personal information to the public , as cyberspace is neither perfect nor safe . People may not effectively protect their privacy online and , sometimes , some people may use others ' personal information maliciously .
In conclusion , the insecure online environment and spending too much time online are the potential negative factors of using social networks .
However , social networks also provide people with a convenient communication platform , and it increases the frequency with which they meet each other in person .
They also help people develop their interpersonal skills through online chatting .
Overall , there are more benefits than there are costs .
The world is increasingly becoming flattened by all kinds of social network websites such as Facebook and Twitter .
Through social media , we can even know what a friend who lives thousands of miles away eats for lunch .
From some points of view , social media has many advantages by letting us communicate with friends more cheaply and conveniently than traditional methods .
However , its disadvantages can not be ignored when you consider it as a platform to show off or as a stage for cyber crime .
Social network sites provide us with many conveniences .
Without hanging out with friends or talking with them on the phone , we can know their latest news by scanning the websites .
It helps us know more about each other .
It can make people become closer as well .
For example , if you find out that your friend 's favourite singer is Justin Bieber through Facebook , you can give them Justin Bieber 's new album or a concert ticket as a birthday gift .
It would be very sweet and you two would surely become closer .
In addition , social network sites can help you keep in touch with friends living very far away .
When I was in Egypt , I made some friends from Canada .
Without Facebook , we may have lost contact with each other .
However , thanks to Facebook , I can still keep in touch with them and know what they are doing , as if we lived close to each other .
The disadvantages of social media are quite undeniable .
Research shows that people will unconsciously hide their real thoughts when they post something publicly .
This means that one can not know another 's true thoughts or personality by reading the things that they share on social media , which could be quite upsetting if they communicate in real life .
which could be quite upsetting if they communicate in real life .
In addition , with all the friendly people on social networks , one may neglect the people surrounding them and just communicate with their friends on Facebook .
It is common to see two people sitting next to each other , seldom talking to each other . Instead they just look at their cellphones .
According to research , this kind of behaviour is not good for people 's psychological health .
Cyber communication is quite different from face-to-face communication and people who depend on cyber communication too much will be unaccustomed to real-life communication .
Additionally , cyber relationships do not always work in real life .
With their only close friends online and not in real life , people are more likely to feel lonely because of the unfulfilled , physiological need to bond with others with all five senses .
With the competitiveness people feel to be the best one around , social networks have now become a place to show off .
Some people post pictures on social networks of their expensive things or the overseas destinations they have visited and get a feeling of satisfaction by doing so .
It is mentally unhealthy and it may cause people , especially teenagers , to become material .
Last but not least , all of the personal information on a person 's social network page makes it convenient for criminals to use this information to commit crimes .
Above all , social networking sites are a double-edged sword . People can only take benefit from them by avoiding the possible disadvantages , such as by putting less personal information on their Facebook pages .
The modes of communication have changed over the years , from letter writing to social networking .
This phenomenon is caused by rapidly changing technology , which has made communication faster than ever before .
Today , social media sites , such as Facebook and Twitter , are relatively common within contemporary society , and people can communicate with each other through these platforms .
They can even make new friends with similar interests and can connect with almost anyone in many parts of the world .
However , critics may argue that the existence of social media has reduced physical human interactions among people as they prefer sitting in front of a computer to going out and making new friends .
This essay will discuss both the benefits and downsides of using social media in contemporary society .
Nowadays , social media can disseminate information faster than any other form of media .
About 50 % of people learn about breaking news from social media .
This is due to people spending more time on social networks than reading newspapers .
Furthermore , with current technology , smartphones can access social media sites , making it even easier for consumers to use them .
Social media has benefited the masses by equipping them with a powerful tool to disseminate information almost immediately to the people around them .
However , critics may argue that not all information or news disseminated is reliable .
False information or hoaxes can also be spread on social media .
For example , in 2012 , false rumors of fires , shootouts , and caravans of gunmen in a Mexico City suburb spread through Twitter and Facebook .
This caused panic among the people , who flooded the local police department with numerous phone calls , resulting in the temporarily closing of schools .
The spread of false information can be a psychological threat to anyone given how quickly social media can disseminate information .
There are cyber police who roam around these social networking platforms to prevent these hoaxes from spreading .
Despite high security , there will still be unreliable sources spreading false information on social media sites to control almost every social-network movement .
Social media can improve relationships and facilitate making new friends , provided that there is mutual trust and mutual understanding between both parties .
Many teenagers today claim that they are able to keep in touch with their friends through social media , regardless of their location .
In the past , people used to write letters to their friends and it would take a relatively long time to deliver the letters .
With the help of technology , people can conveniently catch up with each other .
Furthermore , it is easier to make new friends who have similar interests or hobbies .
However , in order for people to maintain their current relationships as well as make new friends , there must be mutual trust and understanding .
It might not be accurate to judge another person 's feelings over social media since people can hide their true emotions online .
There is a chance that people may miscommunicate with each other as they can not sense one another 's tone over social media platforms , which will result in unnecessary conflicts .
which will result in unnecessary conflicts .
But , if there is trust and mutual understanding on social media , it will be ideal for people to improve their relationships and make new friends .
In conclusion , social media in contemporary society can help people improve their relationships and make new friends , as well as disseminate information efficiently to the masses .
However , there is a risk of false information and opportunities for miscommunication .
Nevertheless , the advantages of social media can be beneficial if the negative aspects of it can be carefully taken care of .
All-in-all , social media is the product of rapid technological advancement , more of which are to come in future .
Social media sites have greatly facilitated long-distance communication and interaction due to their accessibility and convenience .
In today 's globalised and interconnected world , Twitter and Facebook are now the mainstream platforms for social interactions .
With just a click on any electronic device , anyone can easily interact and communicate with their friends without much hassle .
Thus long-distance relationships and friendships can be easily maintained , and keeping in touch with your circle of friends has been made much easier .
People can engage with each other more easily through the sharing of personal photos , posting about their feelings or experiences , and the ability to reply to another 's posts .
Introverts or those who are too shy to communicate with their friends in person are now able to do so with words via social media platform .
In this way , socialisation can occur seamlessly and effectively through social media platforms . Meetups and appointments are no longer a barrier for humans to contact and communicate with one another , making human interaction possible at one 's own convenience .
Society will adapt to such phenomena as physical interaction is transformed into cyber interaction .
With the frequent use and reliance on social media and the Internet , a society that socialises online will become more advanced and adapted to a highly connected world .
This will greatly help society progress rapidly .
On the other hand , there are disadvantages to social media . One of the main concerns of using social media platforms to communicate is credibility .
The veracity of what is being shared or expressed can not be proven as media limits physical interactions , except when using a webcam to chat .
We can not be certain for sure of the truth of the posts or information we receive through the Internet .
We may actually be communicating with the hoax Facebook account of a cyber " friend " , which we assumed to be real but in reality is fake .
Photos and information retrieved from their profile page may be fabricated to suit certain personal agenda .
Thus , the lack of face-to-face human contact through social media restricts actual interactions which can be stimulated through the media .
Although emoticons can be used to show certain emotions , this differs from the authentic emotions you observe them your friends ' body language and facial expressions .
The danger of such communication is the uncertainty due to lack of physical interaction .
Furthermore , this lack of physical interaction has affected interpersonal behaviour since communication is made through social media instead of in-person meetings .
This reduces people 's experience interacting with one another which can adversely shape their behaviour .
The lack of exposure to real-life interactions will cause people to not build the confidence and skills needed to interact seamlessly and effectively with others .
Therefore , for an effective and efficient society , people need to have a balance between social media and face-to-face interactions .
Nowadays , people can use their phones to read the news and everyone can be the first witness of what is happening in the world .
People use Twitter to follow the artists or celebrities they love and Facebook to see their friends ' recent activity .
Nevertheless , they can still use their phones to make normal calls and messages to connect .
Not only did the phone do their jobs for them , but so do devices like personal computers , laptops , and tablets that can connect to the internet .
It is obvious to see that the internet saves people 's time and also connects people globally .
Several arguments have been made regarding the inevitable disadvantages social media may have for people .
People can only use electronic devices to access the internet .
Whenever they need to use social media , they have to use a phone or the internet .
Generally people need their eyes to look at the display of their phone or computer and their fingers to manipulate the device .
As a result , they will not have eyes to make contact with or hands to express their feelings to the people near them , which means that they have lost the tools they need for face-to-face communication .
This can be easily seen in restaurants or cafes nowadays .
A family of four is having dinner in a restaurant without any interaction because they 're holding and looking at their screen with one hand when the other hand is holding a fork .
A group of friends is having high tea in a café , also without chatting , because they do not know what to talk about , so they are touching their phone screens instead .
The children nowadays do not know what neighbourhood games are and who is standing beside them : all they know is how to press icons on screens .
These are some concrete examples of how social media reduces face-to-face human contact .
When people get used to using social media to contact other people , their interpersonal communicating skills will degrade and be lost eventually .
They have lost the courage to meet strangers , even the courage to talk .
Additionally , they will not have enough experience to communicate with people in person and not be trained in their conversation skills .
As a result , social media helps them do their jobs but indirectly affects their interpersonal skills .
Social media does have some other advantages .
First of all , people save money by using the internet to contact other people and read the news .
A father may be able to call his daughter in another country via social media instead of making international phone calls , which costs a lot to middle-class families .
He can even talk to his daughter face-to-face using video calls over the internet .
Secondly , people can make friends all over the world and can easily update their friends about their recent activities .
A guy who is going to travel for months can easily tell all of his friends about his activities .
When one of his friends who is not aware of this has failed to contact him via telephone calls , he might be able to find out his whereabouts using social media .
These are the advantages that save effort most of the time .
In conclusion , social media benefits people in several ways but , at the same time , harms people .
People should avoid the misuse of social media and use it in the proper way .
With the aid of social media , people bond globally , information flows rapidly , and humans live happily .
All of us are living in a technological society .
Have you ever wondered why we use these tools to connect with other people ?
It started with the invention of technology , which has evolved tremendously over the past few decades .
In the past , we traveled by ship but now we can use airplanes to do so .
In the past , it took a few days to receive messages as we need to post our letters but now we can use e-mail , which stands for electronic mail , to send messages to our friends or even use our cell phones to send messages .
From these examples , we can see that the physical distance between people and their loved ones is getting further apart .
This is because , with the ease of technological advancements such as the airplane , some of your friends might be going overseas to continue their studies or even you may go away from your family to pursue your studies or even careers .
Thus , this makes Twitter and Facebook become the media that we need to stay in touch .
However , everything in life has positive and negative effects .
This is also applicable to social media sites .
The next two paragraphs will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our society .
With the help of social media tools , we can stay in contact and keep ourselves up to date with our family and friends even though we are away from them .
Social media sites such as Facebook allow us to share pictures or even chat online with our parents while we are overseas .
This helps parents communicate with their children and know what kind of activities they are doing while they are traveling .
Social media is beneficial since it connects you with your loved ones even though you are separated by distance .
It might not be able to replace the joy that you have when you are with your family , but it could help to reduce the sadness of being away from them .
As I mentioned in the beginning , social media tools also have disadvantages .
One of them is that it reduces concentration levels , especially in young people .
This is because it is their habit to check Facebook as their friends will post something new every second .
You can see that some students browse Facebook while attending lectures , which means that students are not concentrating when they are supposed to .
which means that students are not concentrating when they are supposed to .
As a result , it can affect their lives and studies .
This then could lead to stress as these students are not able to cope with their studies because they were distracted in class .
In my opinion , every individual has to take responsibility for their own lives by making the right decisions .
There are advantages and disadvantages in using social media sites , however , in this case , striking a balance between social media and their real lives is the most important thing to do .
Nowadays , the use of social media platforms is commonplace in our lives .
In an increasingly globalised world , such platforms enhance and complicate the links between people .
Thanks to these platforms , people can get to know one another online without having to travel to meet up for business purposes or personal reasons .
However , it also brings some social changes whereby such virtual worlds are overtaking the real world , negatively impacting people 's daily lives and therefore becoming a larger problem for societies as a whole .
As people spend more and more time on social media sites , the importance of face-to-face human contact has decreased .
As people feel more confident and comfortable online where they do not have to face real-life , on-the-spot situations , they prefer communicating online .
This results in a lack of interpersonal skills , especially in young students , as they always have the option to turn their backs to the real world and go online .
This becomes a huge problem when they have no choice but to face things in real life .
As they are so used to having an online avatar , they may lose their self-identity in their real life and not understand how to interact with people face-to-face .
Another problem with social media is that the consequence of investing such an enormous amount of time and energy is not reflected as something positive to the users .
The reason why it is so addictive is that the more people get into social media , the more attention they seek from their friends .
However , such sparks of sudden attention are extremely short-lived and disappear quickly , and thus do not add any value or meaning to the users lives .
Also , according to a research study , users feel sadder after using Facebook , which is because users unknowingly compare their lives with other people 's lives .
But seriously , most people only post the happiest moments in their lives .
Social media definitely has a strong benefit that make users stay , which is how it links people together .
Indeed , I myself use Facebook just because of the friends that I want to keep in contact with .
However , friendship in a virtual world is so superficial that it is not so relevant to the real world .
Also , as numerous profit-driven companies realize the huge amount of traffic on such social media sites , they treat it like a pond to fish in for customers by uploading a lot of advertisements .
Furthermore , this also possibly triggers privacy issues because Facebook allows some profit-driven companies to access the users ' information .
As this happens , users are more and more prone to possible frauds .
Social media sites are at their peak at the moment , however I believe that when people realize that such sites are not making them better people in real life , they will not indulge in them as much as they do now .
Soon users will realise that they do not need social media sites to keep in touch with their friends because , if they really need somebody , they will reach their friends no matter what .
We think we are all connected through all types of social media , but are we really being connected or falling apart ?
Social media sites like Facebook and Twitter were created with the intention of connecting people from around the world .
The idea was great , and nowadays most people , even the older generation , have an account on at least one social media platform like Facebook .
Parents are now " friends " with their kids and they can " follow " their kids more closely and in real time .
People post their random thoughts or daily activities via Twitter and they frequently post different kinds of photos on Facebook to connect with their so-called friends .
However , we then tend to spend too much time on social media , resulting in a significant reduction of face-to-face human contact , which eventually affects our interpersonal skills .
First and foremost , I would like to share the advantages of using social media in my daily life .
As a student , I tend to meet lots of people from different backgrounds in different settings .
We may meet only once but we exchange our phone numbers and Facebook accounts in order to keep in touch .
Unlike just having phone numbers that we may not even call , social media sites like Facebook are a great way for friends from different fields or even different parts of the world to stay connected .
With a few clicks , we can check on a friend 's profile and read their status updates .
We can also update our profiles by making wall posts , which our friends can read on their newsfeeds .
This allows friends that may not have the time to meet in person to still be connected in a way .
Not only that , but new friends can also be easily met through such online platforms .
As a result of this , our social circle is indeed expanding .
Nonetheless , what seems to make us connected can also be what causes us to fall apart .
The obvious disadvantage of using social media is the reduced time spent on face-to-face contact .
This subsequently leads to poor interpersonal skills that inhibit the growth of our real social circles .
For example , we tend to send birthday wishes when Facebook prompts us , " Today is someone 's birthday " , when in fact , we may have forgotten our friend 's birthday .
when in fact , we may have forgotten our friend 's birthday .
We used to send greeting cards for festivities like the Chinese New Year , and it felt so good to write one and of course to receive one with stamps on it .
Gone are those times , and now we send mass e-mails and the receivers may feel less meaning in these online wishes .
As time passes , we may have more " friends " on our contact list , but the meaning of the word " friend " needs to be redefined .
In a nutshell , social media is a double-edged sword .
The users of all social media sites need to strike a balance between the real world versus the virtual one .
We should maximize the benefits of such platforms but be careful of their impacts on our actual lives .
Ultimately , the best way to enhance interpersonal skills is still through face-to-face meetings , and social media sites are just tools to supplement it .
Social media sites are commonly used in today 's society .
I believe that 80 percent of people use social media sites .
These sites play the role of connecting people around the world .
They serve the function of connecting people , sharing content , interacting with others and advertising .
However , there are some disadvantages to social media that concern the society .
This article is written to explain the pros and cons of using social media in our daily lives .
First , with social media sites that connect people , anyone can interact and communicate with their friends , families , and even strangers without any time or place constraints .
Through social media sites , we can chat with our friends who are visiting Europe or New Zealand .
There are over one thousand miles between Singapore and these two countries , but we are still able to chat with our friends without traveling there .
but we are still able to chat with our friends without traveling there .
This saves a lot of money and time , as well as strengthens our relationships even though we are in different places around the world .
Besides that , companies can also use the convenience of social media sites , such as Facebook chat or Skype , to facilitate business meetings with people from around the world .
Substantial cost is saved without tiring travel from one point to another .
The huge amount of cost savings can be utilized in other sectors , which could benefit the company more and boost the company 's profit .
However , there are always two sides to a story .
Some scholars argue that the use of social media reduces the personal connections between people .
Since ancient times , humans have interacted with each other face to face .
Without facial expressions , it is easy to misunderstand a person 's intent .
That is why facial expressions are one of the most important elements in social learning .
In addition , a popular point of view in society is that " social media sites will affect writing skills " .
Based on a research report , writing skills are reduced more when more time is spent on social media sites .
I believe most of us have had the experience of suddenly forgetting how to write a word that we should have known .
Auto-correct software is so effective when using electronic devices that we do not realize the importance of writing .
Writing is an essential skill for people to express their feelings and opinions .
Privacy ' has been a popular word in the past few decades .
Each person has their own rights and privacy .
I believe that most of us agree with these statements .
However , there has been news about social media sites leaking users ' information to companies for cash reimbursement .
Everything we type in social media sites is recorded on their servers and then transferred to companies for spying and advertising .
Even though it appears that there are no rules and it is your own space to speak and do anything you want , you are actually wrong .
You are not only controlled by the government 's laws but also spied on by the government .
In conclusion , there are two sides to every story .
It is our responsibility to identify the advantages and disadvantages of social media sites .
To utilize this technology well , we should do our best to not only balance the pros and cons but also lengthen the list of pros and shorten the number of cons .
In this way , social media can bring a prosperous future to us and to the next generation .
With the widespread use of advanced technology , social media sites are becoming more and more popular .
Getting connected on social media sites , such as Facebook and Twitter , has become a popular trend as well as part of our daily work .
In this situation , both the advantages and disadvantages of using social media apply to our daily lives .
On one side , it has brought many obvious advantages to our lives .
Social media provides people with the opportunity to contact each other , any time and anywhere .
Whether we are at home or at school , at work or on a holiday , we can communicate and interact with our friends .
Even when people are thousands of miles apart , social media makes it possible to interact with each other by writing messages .
When our phones are accidentally out of battery , we can use social media to get in touch with our friends .
Some people who are too shy to talk in public can actively take part in group chats via social media .
Besides , we can make more friends through these interactions when our friends bring their other friends in .
Therefore , the popularity of social media sites has made it more convenient for people to update their friends and contact them more frequently .
On the other side , we need to consider the negative influences of social media .
There are many disadvantages of using social media .
First , interpersonal skills may be affected by the reduction in face-to-face human contact .
While social media brings convenience to people 's lives , people are more and more willing to use social media for chatting instead of talking in person , which has a time and place requirement .
People who are not good at speaking with others may be more reluctant to talk to people , and their interpersonal skills can never be improved in this situation .
Second of all , a social media addiction may exacerbate social alienation to some degree , and this kind of alienation causes some social media users to suffer from over-dependence on virtual networking .
More and more networking has been transferred to the internet from real life .
This is one potential danger for teenagers , who are going through social development .
Third , a lot of posts are about luxurious living standards as well as other ways of showing off may make people 's daily lives seem more and more grandiloquent , which is not an accurate portrayal .
Finally , it is easy for people to waste a lot of time using social media .
Again , there is a trend for them to suffer from social media addiction , which may greatly harm their education and work .
We can see both the advantages and disadvantages of using social media , but since we can not deny the huge benefits that it has brought to us , it will likely be around for a long time .
Therefore , every time we use social media , we should take both sides into consideration and try to avoid being affected by the disadvantages .
Only by absorbing the essence and discarding the dregs can we make better use of social media .
In a sophisticated era like today , experts keep producing inventions that are meant to make life easier .
Geographic borders are not a problem anymore because communication and information technologies are continuously being enhanced .
The telephone was likely perceived as the biggest innovation ever when Graham Bell first introduced it .
However , ever since the internet became prevalent , the telephone started to give way to social media sites .
There are many advantages for the users .
As an example , let 's look at Facebook and Twitter , two of the most popular social media sites .
Through Facebook , people are able to maintain relationships with their old acquaintances .
This can not be achieved through phone or mail because people 's phone numbers and addresses may change from time to time while , on Facebook , people can keep in contact with old friends just by using their names and photos as identifiers .
Facebook is a combination of message and chat , personal profiles , sharing multimedia , and other entertainments , such as social games , which allow users to communicate with faraway people .
social games , which allow users to communicate with faraway people .
Twitter , which has a more straightforward function than Facebook , is more beneficial used as a vehicle for sharing information .
Twitter only allows users to post updates limited to short sentences in order to spread words quickly .
Facebook offers a more comprehensive way to share , since multiple photos and videos can be uploaded , long notes can be published , and even documents and data can be shared on the site .
These advantages come in handy as most of these social media sites are accessible through mobile applications on our smartphones .
Despite the benefits offered by social media , there are also harmful side effects that people may not be aware of beforehand .
Research shows that people who are addicted to social media sites meet face-to-face with decreasing frequency .
As a consequence , their interpersonal skills are affected .
People can think while typing and prepare what they want to say but , in face-to-face communication , every word that comes out of their mouth and may not be well arranged paints a picture of their personality .
This skill requires practice and can not be learned completely through social media .
In one scenario , a family is having dinner together in a restaurant but everybody is busy with their own gadgets , posting pictures to Facebook , updating their status on Twitter , or even chatting with friends .
These social media sites serve a purpose to connect people in spite of geographical boundaries but it does n't mean that the people near them should be neglected as a consequence .
This is related to the interpersonal skills mentioned before , which can decrease qualitatively if we are more used to facing gadgets instead of human beings .
Another disadvantage that affects other people is that , by only showing curated parts of our lives , we build a " false image " to show to the public .
We tend to only share happy moments on social media .
Because of this , other people start to think that our lives are full of happiness with no problems at all .
Other people then are influenced by us and tend to do the same .
As a result , people think worse of themselves , which may lead to depression and mood disorders .
This also reduces our sympathy , which is a serious social problem that affects a lot of people .
is a serious social problem that affects a lot of people .
As explained above , modern and sophisticated technologies do not always bring advantages .
There are a lot of disadvantages that people may not be aware of .
It is up to each person 's discretion and understanding to decide which side they want to take .
In conclusion , we should never forget to think of and calculate the potential benefit and loss of every decision that we make .
Nowadays , technological advancements greatly improve the lives of many people .
Most countries have witnessed an emergence of social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter .
Many people think that social media sites benefit the communication between people while others argue that they have several negative impacts on society .
One of the advantages of social media sites is that they can connect us more closely than before .
In earlier decades , when social media sites were not yet fully developed , people connected with others who lived far away by using the phone , or even writing letters .
However , calling a person by phone and writing letters have a cost , and sending a letter to someone who lives far away , especially in small villages , takes a lot of time .
The appearance of social media sites caused those problems to be solved .
People connecting through social media sites communicate without spending money , and it only takes a few seconds for messages to be received .
The advantages of social media sites are that they save money and time , which is convenient for many people .
Moreover , this also provides an alternative way for people to contact those whom they had not seen in a very long time , such as their friends from primary school and secondary school .
As we graduate from a school , we will probably lose contact with some of our friends .
Some of them may change their phone numbers and addresses , and we will not be able to find them through the phone or mail .
If phone calls and letters are the only way we had to contact them , we would probably not be able to find them .
Facebook and Twitter can serve as an alternative route to make connections with our old friends .
Therefore , social media sites serves as a platform for making connections .
Everything that comes with benefits will have disadvantages as well .
Social media sites also bring negative impacts to people and the society .
The advancement of social media sites makes people so reliant on them that some prefer using these sites to contact each other rather than talking to each other face to face .
Many people argue that this is the most serious problem brought by social media .
The use of social media sites indirectly causes a reduction in face-to-face communication in real life , which will in turn cause the loss of interpersonal skills for many people .
As we all know , interpersonal skills are essential for us to communicate with each other and to present our views and ideas .
The loss of interpersonal skills results in the inability for people to present their ideas well .
As a result , they will gradually lose the ability to compete with each other in society .
In conclusion , social media sites have both positive and negative consequences for people and society .
As a part of this modern society , we should learn to distinguish between the good and bad impacts brought by technological advancement , and learn to avoid the cons and maximize the benefits of social media sites .
With the advancement of technology in recent years , the demand to keep in touch with people and the latest news has become tremendous .
Some famous examples are social media sites like Twitter and Facebook .
With more than a billion users from all over the world , social media sites have demonstrated clearly their success in playing an important part in our lives .
However , there are arguments that life with social media results in a reduction in face-to-face human contact , which in turn affects interpersonal skills .
Let 's examine the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily lives and society .
First and foremost , all social media sites are free .
All users need are an internet connection and an email account , so that everyone can have a Facebook or Twitter ID to start their journey in social media life .
Second , it helps people to keep in touch with one another .
Finding old friends through Facebook , for example , is easier than asking around in real life .
Social media helps to lessen the hassle of geographical distance and brings people closer .
Third , social media sites keep us up-to-date on the latest news and updates from almost everywhere in the world , all only a click away on the refresh button .
Last but not least , social media sites also link people together by allowing us to create our own groups , pages , or sites to share our hobbies , interests , and studies in particular subjects .
Hence , it is undeniable that these sites play an important role in our global inter-connected world .
However , social media sites also have a negative impact on humans .
Undeniably , they become more addicting when we spend more time socialising and interacting virtually .
We spend the majority of our time on sites like Facebook and Twitter and it affects our daily work productivity and performance .
In the corporate world , employers often block social media networks to prevent employees from spending their office time on their personal leisure instead of concentrating on their work .
Using text-messaging language as an informal way of communicating on social media networks also produces a bad impact for us in the long term .
The more time we spend on these sites , the less time we spend on face-to-face interaction with one another .
Hence it lessens valuable interaction between humans and the time we spend away from the computer screen or mobile phone .
In addition , there are also some false reports on social media sites , and false identities are used to insult or harass people , like the case of Heather Chua that occurred recently on Facebook .
These malicious comments often go viral which creates a strong negative effect on the person in real life , which might lead to an unwilling attitude on the part of the victim to interact with others in real life .
In conclusion , everything has a two-sided effect , and depends on how we exploit it .
With the current boom in technology , it is good for people to become more technology-savvy and to want to spend more time interacting with each other through social media sites ; however , it does not mean that we should neglect face-to-face human interactions , which play an even more important role in our lives .
As more and more social websites such as Twitter , Facebook and Weibo which have become ubiquitous , seamless , and imperative in our lives , people may worry about the young generation having problems in face-to-face communication skills .
However , I believe that the benefits brought by these online chatting rooms tremendously outweigh their liabilities .
Social media enables us to explore the world far away without paying for expensive airplane tickets and spending a one-week holiday .
The convenience is beyond description .
With a small smart phone or a computer at school , at work , or at home , we can easily make friends worldwide with a ' click ' and get to know about their life through having conversations with them and reading their blogs , photos , and statuses .
Compared to face-to-face interaction , online conversation makes it easier for strangers to talk to each other .
Since some information has already been revealed on a person 's home page , it is also easier to find some common topics to talk about .
Moreover , people usually like to boldly share their real feelings online with their masks having been removed in reality .
This has been indicated in a report done by Boston University in 2012 : 80 % of information posted online is true , while a person may lie 3 out of 10 times in real life .
This shows that a Facebook friend may know more about you than your close friend who does not have a Facebook account .
That is because we are lying about who we are in reality , while we have no reason to do that in the online virtual world .
Although sometimes the genuine sharing of information may be inappropriate or even harmful , such as the prevalent use of vulgarity and harsh comments , we can minimize those behaviors through strict regulations of content online .
Another advantage of social media is in aiding the spread of democracy .
People around the world could easily share their thoughts about their governments .
That eliminates the disadvantage of incomplete information for some remote rural regions , where people are less aware of what is actually happening around them .
One example is the 2012 riots that happened in Egypt and Zambia .
The idea of striving for democracy was passed from Egyptians to people in Zambia quickly , through the use of social media .
However , the government controls most of the media .
These social media may be tools of their campaign and of their manipulation of the thoughts of the public .
For example , in the 2012 general election in Singapore , Dr. Tan Chee Keong made use of Facebook to spread his campaign videos to the public .
Although , because of this , social media is still a much fairer and more transparent online platform for the public to share ideas compared to other traditional media .
Intensive use of social media does reduce the time people spend in face-to-face communication .
It is a common sight in a food court or restaurant for a group of people to be sitting together around a table , with each of them having a cell phone in their hands .
They are too busy with their way-too-many virtual friends , and some of them neglect the feelings of their real-life friends .
In this case , I have to say that to err is human .
What we can do is to educate the public about the importance of the friends sitting beside them , and teach them to manage their time well .
In conclusion , the use of social media has more advantages than disadvantages in our daily lives .
What we can do is to cautiously manage the time we spend online and manage the words we use online .
With the regulation of the government and relevant authorities , the virtual world would be a better world .
The role of social media sites in connecting people around the world is undeniable .
Thank to social media , communication among people all over the world is possible and can be done with ease .
Apart from the ease of communication despite the distance , there are many other advantages , such as knowledge sharing and trading .
Nevertheless , along with those advantages come disadvantages , such as the reduction in face-to-face human contact ( which affects interpersonal skills ) , privacy issues , and fraud .
Twitter , Facebook , and Skype are some social media sites which enable us to keep in touch with our friends or family who are in other cities or countries .
Through those sites we are able to talk to them , to know what their activities are and who their friends are , etc . From the surface point of view , it is no doubt that these sites help us to have a better relationship with our relatives , despite of the distance .
The sharing of information can be done faster through social media , as well ; that is why nowadays , many news publishers make their own social media account . For example , Channel News Asia has a Twitter account , and updates its followers with headline news .
This shows how news and information can be shared easily through social media .
Furthermore , since many teenagers and young adults are fans of social media , this information can reach them easily without them needing to watch or listen to news reports .
Due to the popularity of social media , many people start to do their business via these sites .
More and more advertisements can be found on Facebook . Whether it is our friends or professional brands selling their products online , we are able to buy and contact the sellers through those sites , which can be considered to be an advantage for us , the buyers .
However , is it the same when we keep in touch with someone virtually , compared to when we meet them personally ?
I do think there is a difference in it , and I believe many of us will agree .
When we write or communicate virtually , we can hide our true feelings , and may not become ourselves , since we do not want the other party to judge us .
Other than that , sometimes the message of one party can not be delivered properly to the other one since the communication is done through written language , and thus the ' tone ' of the message between when it is sent and when it is received may be different .
Many people are very brave in telling people about their opinions online , but in real life , some of them can be very shy and not outspoken at all .
This will lead to a bad interpersonal skill as well as a problem of trust .
Nowadays , we can not really trust new people whom we know from social media since we will never know whether they are even ' real ' .
Some people fake their identities in media sites so that they can know more people , and some may even cheat others .
In addition , the privacy issue has become more popular nowadays , since some people do not realize that they may be sharing some information that they are not actually willing to share in the first place .
Therefore , while social media sites undoubtedly have benefits in our lives , we should consider their drawbacks and thus use them wisely so that we can gain more of their benefits and so it disadvantages us in the smallest way possible .
It is a common scene that almost everyone using public transportation is looking at a phone or wearing a pair of headphones in today 's society .
The same pictures can be found in many developed and developing countries .
Some say that it is a necessary step for human revolution .
Social media sites like Twitter and Facebook are popular among people , because they allow them to connect with others even from different countries .
It also brings many negative effects such as the loss of face-to-face communication skills , which are important in the work place .
This essay will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily lives .
One of the significant advantages of using a popular social media site is that people can reach each other easily , even if they have been without contact for a long time .
In this fast-paced and competitive world , people may not otherwise be able to keep in touch with others .
With the help of social media sites , people are able to upload their new discoveries and funny scenes , and they can be updated with new information from their friends .
Personally , I am studying overseas , and a busy study life keeps me away from contact with my old friends .
Using a common social media site with my friends helps me know what are their statuses nowadays .
And I am able to easily find a common topic when I contact them .
Many Malaysians cross the sea to work here in Singapore .
Many of them are busy at work and separated from their children .
One of the managers in my work place has the same situation .
After my manager taught her mother how to use Facebook , she was able to upload video clips of her grandchild .
Therefore , my manager would not miss the moments of her daughter 's growth .
Social media sites are also a very useful tool for people to start a new friendship or relationship .
People with the same preferences get connected or become closer .
Knowing this information , it is easier for people to approach each other .
Students can exchange their experiences studying , even when they are in different countries .
People are able to share the culture or pretty photos online so that others can share the joy with them .
Thus I believe that social media sites are a useful tool to help people know each other better .
However , social media sites are a double-sided sword ; they also bring in some negative effects on our daily lives .
One of the disadvantages that concerns many people is that people lose interest in face-to-face communication .
Many people like to use language to create pretend identities , and lose confidence when they talk to each other .
Although not everyone is good at public relationships even without the existence of the social media sites , we can not deny that it does affect some people in their ability to use interpersonal skills .
In conclusion , there is always a shadow when there is light .
We should take the advantages of the creatures we create , and try to avoid the negative effects .
Social media sites are supposed to be a very useful and convenient tool to use and to bring people closer in this globalised world .
The use of social media has largely influenced our ways of communicating with one another .
Online friends become real life friends and real life friends communicate with one another online .
Social media has changed our ways of exchanging information and interpersonal relationships profoundly .
There are advantages and disadvantages to this change .
Social media has reshaped the way of communication .
In real life , we communicate with one another as equal participants .
We share ideas and stories and forge friendships based on mutual respect .
However , communication on social media is largely based on " broadcasting and listening " .
When we use Facebook and post pictures and statuses , we are actively " presenting " façades of our lives to others .
When we use Facebook and post pictures and statuses , we are actively " presenting " façades of our lives to others .
We tend to post pictures with the best looks , and statuses that are funny .
We broadcast these façades of us to others .
The images we choose to present are tentatively considered .
The audience is not some specific person , but everyone we might know , or even the entire world .
There is an element of seeking out attention rather than expressing one 's true opinion on social networks .
On the other hand , the viewers are not the listeners .
They are just scrolling down pages and pages of pictures and statuses until they see ones which they might think are funny .
It is not the broadcasters themselves they care about , but the content .
This type of communication does not help in forging interpersonal relationships .
In real life , establishing friendship requires well-rounded understanding of one another and caring for one another .
The latter requires face to face interaction where we can show our emotions to the other .
One can not truly understand a person by only stalking his/her Facebook page where he/she carefully chooses what to present .
One can not truly show their emotions to another by texting some = ) signs .
The broadcasting and viewing model is not good for forging relationships .
However , it is good for sharing information .
On social media , everyone is a broadcaster and a viewer .
With my social network account , I seldom read newspapers or go to news websites anymore , because I can easily read them from the statuses of my friends .
If I am interested in politics , I can just follow some political newspapers or public figures .
I get news for shopping , clothes , and cosmetics from my friends .
If some of my friends have horrible taste in clothing and he posts them often , I can simply block him .
Information gets circulated .
The most popular information gets circulated the most so I seldom miss it .
Social networks play a role in providing and also filtering information .
This saves a lot of time for me from reading newspapers and watching TV .
Personally I feel more at ease on social media .
From the above two points of view , I think social media could forge more interest-based friendships .
With the help of social media , I become real-life friends with those from online forums with whom I share the same interest .
I also discover some of my friends ' interests which I have in common , so that talking to one another is much more about life , study , friends , and so on .
The communication does not focus on how we feel , or say to each other , but on whatever is interesting , or the content .
In this case , interpersonal skills are not as important because our goal is not to impress somebody , but to get the information that we are both interested in .
In conclusion , I think social media has reshaped interpersonal relationships from a more human-based friendship that requires sharing and caring between friends to a more information-based friendship that requires a mutual interest .
There are advantages and disadvantages to this ; however , whether it is good or bad , we are still not sure .
It is just different .
Advantages and disadvantages of using social media in daily life
People that live in the modern world really can not live without social media sites like Twitter and Facebook .
Almost all students and young adults possess a Facebook or Twitter account .
It is true that social media makes people able to connect to one another more conveniently .
However , it seems that for some , sharing parts of their lives such as videos and photos on the social media sites becomes really necessary .
An extremely interesting and ironic phenomenon was discovered , where a group of friends met and sat around a table , but none of them were really chatting with one another .
Instead , all of them were more interested in posting pictures of this " cheerful " meeting on their social media sites .
Therefore , there is a need to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of social media .
Social media enables people from different parts of the world to communicate with one another .
In the past , people used to write letters and send post cards to keep in touch with ones who lived far away from them .
It can take a few days or weeks for those messages to be received .
Nowadays , what people need to do is to just type in front of the computer in their own rooms .
And people on the other side will only need a second to receive the message .
Distance and time are no longer the problems , which is convenient , especially when instant chat is needed .
However , when people become more and more addicted to this convenience and fail to communicate with people who are close to them , their face-to-face interpersonal skills are lost .
Social media provides people a way of talking and chatting which can never be considered as a way of communication .
When people chat on those media sites , there is no eye connection , no emotional delivery , and even the expressions are typed in by using some combinations of punctuation .
For more convenience , sentences are shortened to simply three or four words such as lol ( which means laugh intensively ) and " asap " ( which means as soon as possible ) .
People indeed go to great lengths to make their words as short as they can .
At the same time , once they are communicating with people to their face , expressing themselves appropriately becomes a really big problem .
Social media also provides people with a huge amount of information about people and things that interest them .
For example , on Twitter , it is exciting to follow people that you adore , like famous stars from movie and TV series , business men , and entrepreneurs .
It makes people feel extremely close to their admirers ' lives and works .
Updated news that people care about can be easily obtained at any time by refreshing your social media sites on your smart phones and laptops .
However , after one has registered at unreliable social media sites , all the information you have posted will be a weapon against you in the future .
Furthermore , not everyone on social media sites is honest .
The profile picture may not be the person who that user says he or she really is .
The reason might just be that he or she just wants to " decorate " his or her face .
But there is a possibility that the person on the other side is deceiving you in order to obtain information against you .
The lack of a pledge of authenticity risks people 's privacy and the information that is shared on social media sites .
To sum up , social media has advantages and disadvantages in people 's daily lives .
It shortens the distance between people from all over the world and makes instant communication possible .
And it becomes more convenient to obtain and update information by using social media .
On the contrary , social media makes people lose their ability to communicate effectively in their real lives and makes people risk exposing their privacy to those whose identity can not be verified on social media sites .
How does social media help change our lives ?
With the development of the technology , social media has become more and more significant in the world .
People can not stop using it every day to express their feelings and ideas , which helps their friends know their lives better .
However , it also raises the concerns about whether it brings us more benefits , or a disaster .
Although it helps to connect us with our friends wherever we are , it at the same time reduces the chances for us to talk to our friends face to face , which may affect our interpersonal skills .
Thus , whether there are more advantages or disadvantages becomes a tough question for every human being .
Many people say they will support social media since it really helps them to have a closer view about how their friends are doing in other parts of the world .
This is especially true for people who are overseas .
To them , social media is the only resource they can use to know everything that happens in their home country , as well as the way they can show their lives to those they love .
What 's more , these days social media plays an important role in spreading information .
Nowadays , people can just easily post information to their Facebook accounts and wait for responses from others who are from different parts of the world , which brings us a huge amount of convenience .
It is quite significant , especially for young teenagers who would rather go to these sites to see the news and know what happened in this world than read the newspaper every day .
However , there are also a great number of people who are against this technology .
They worry a lot about the bad effect on teenagers who are still developing .
They point out that social media reduces the chance for us to talk face to face with the people around us .
The more we care about Facebook , the less time we have to spend with our friends .
Nowadays , it is quite common to attend parties where people prefer looking at their phones and reading posts on Facebook if they feel bored .
It makes people worry that if teenagers continue using social media frequently , their ability to talk to people will decrease .
They feel it will become difficult for them to find any topics to discuss with other people .
Personally , I strongly agree that social media brings more disadvantages than advantages .
Although it is useful as a means of letting other people know we live a good life , it wastes a lot of time , as well .
Put another way , if we took the time we spent wandering those sites , we might instead finish a book or do other more meaningful things .
We should keep in mind that there are still ways for us to communicate with family or friends .
Everything will be bad if we do n't know how to use these tools wisely , whether or not it is really good .
As a result , it is important for people to know that we need to be cautious about the time we spend on social media .
As stated above , I strongly believe that if we can use social media wisely rather than abusing it , we will all live a better life .
The advantage and disadvantage of social media
Nowadays , as technology is becoming increasingly advanced , more and more social media sites are showing up in our daily life .
You can see people using Facebook and Twitter through their smart phones or iPads on buses or on trains .
Some may claim that the appearance of these modern media will reduce the chance for people to communicate face to face .
This essay will illustrate the pros and cons of using social media in modern society .
First of all , social media can make it more convenient for people to make friends and contact each other .
Years ago , when these modern products were not around , the way for people to communicate was restricted to making phone calls , sending emails , or writing letters .
Some will take a long time , and some are not efficient enough for people to get their response .
However , social media solves these problems well .
People can contact their friends on the internet and get their reply very fast .
The communication is also not limited to words .
People can express themselves through pictures or emotions .
People can also get to know their friends ' state and mood by looking at their posts online .
Moreover , people can be aware of what is going on in social situations , see comments online , and share their opinions on these websites .
These social media make people 's lives much more colorful and provide a lot of fun .
However , social media can do some harm to people 's lives .
It causes people to spend more time chatting on the internet rather than communicating face to face , such that their interpersonal skills will be badly affected .
Some people spend a lot of time in it and forget their real life .
Actually , I have seen that some people are very funny and interesting when I am chatting with them online .
However , they are quite boring when I talk to them in real life .
Teenagers are developing their interpersonal skills and social skills when they are growing up .
If they spend too much time on social media , it may cause some problems for their mental development .
They may feel uncomfortable when they communicate with people face to face .
Some may spend less and less time with their family and not know how to express themselves .
Moreover , incorrect information on the websites will affect teenagers and confuse them .
Some may even do something wrong .
In conclusion , the presence of social media sites is a double-edged sword .
It can make our life simpler .
People can promote their friendships and relationships through these social media .
On the other hand , it can also make people forget to communicate with their family and friends in real life , and negatively affect their interpersonal skills .
But overall , the advantages far outweigh the disadvantages .
So we need to make the best use of these social media sites , and make it a fun way of adding some excitement when life is boring .
And we need to try to overcome the shortcomings .
We should remember to send greetings to our friends and family frequently .
Nowadays , with the advancement of technology , it is easy to communicate wherever you are .
The appearance of social media sites truly connects people closely .
People can know their friends ' recent looks , and interesting things happening to those people , just by checking Facebook or other social media sites .
We can not deny that social media sites truly help old friends to stay in touch , and provide the chance to communicate even with people in a different country .
However , social media sites reduce face-to-face communication , which affects interpersonal skills .
There are two advantages and two disadvantages of using social media in people 's daily life .
First , social media sites can connect people with their friends and parents .
By typing words and showing pictures , people can express emotions that they are otherwise too shy to express .
For example , on mother 's day , people are shy to say " I love you " to their mothers , so instead , they can type it on their mother 's Facebook page .
Then their mothers will receive the message and feel happy .
On the other hand , when a teenager is studying in a foreign country , the internet is the only way that he can communicate with his or her parents and friends .
Therefore , social media is truly good for people .
Second , social media sites are not limited to connecting people with their close friends .
People can also use Twitter and Facebook to learn about celebrities such as Obama and Bill Gates ; they can also get first-hand study materials on them .
They can learn how these people succeed , and they can also have the chance to talk with them and know their thoughts , all by using social media .
With the help of social media , a homeless person , or someone who needs money to cure a disease , can get the help from the world quickly , because once one person knows the information , he or she will share it to their " friends area " , and many people will learn about it and continue to spread the information to a person who can provide help .
On the other hand , there are also problems with the popularity of social media .
First , when people rely on social media to communicate with their friends and parents , they will become accustomed to communicating by typing instead of talking .
People even come to prefer to talk to their friends and meet their friends online , and gradually reject face-to-face communication .
Therefore , social media truly limits interpersonal skills , such that people lose the chance and the ability to practice talking and build a relationship with their friends .
Second , without communication in real life , people lose the ability to see what is true and false .
There are many people in social media with beautiful images and good content in their pages ; however in real life , they may not have jobs and may live poorly .
Teenagers may believe these people and be cheated and lose money or even their safety .
Therefore , social media is not safe , which is bad for a teenager 's development .
All in all , the appearance of social media truly helps people in many areas .
However , there exist some disadvantages which will affect people to some degree .
Advantages and Disadvantages of Using Social Media in Our Daily life and Society .
Nowadays , with the development of technology and society , social media has become more popular and also important in our daily lives .
We communicate with others using social media — such as Twitter , Facebook and microblogs — more and more frequently .
There is no need for people to go out of their homes to interact with others ; they chat online , share pictures , and tell others funny stories or what they have done .
It seems that people build a good relationship with others using social media , but problems arise .
People do not know how to talk with others face to face , especially strangers .
Then , we need to talk about the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily lives and in society .
As for the advantages , there are two aspects : it is more convenient to contact others , and it is easier to know about others .
One advantage is that it is more convenient to contact others using social media .
In the old days , if one wanted to share some important news with someone who lived far away , he needed to write letters , which wastes time .
The long distance and time required made spreading the messages very difficult at that time .
Therefore , people might not have had contact with the faraway friends and relatives unless there were something important .
However , people can now contact anyone who can use a computer , anywhere in the world , at any time , and there is no delay .
The other advantage is that it is easier to know about others using social media .
Without social media , it is difficult for people to gain information about a stranger .
They may collect information about that person by asking his friends , colleagues , or family members .
And the information collected may not be intact and true .
Today , however , with the help of social media , people can easily get the information they want just by searching online , and learn about what that person did every day and at what time .
As for the disadvantages of social media in our daily life , they include wasting time , causing illness related to sitting a long time in front of a computer , the quick spreading of rumors and fake news , and most importantly , the lost ability to talk confidently to others face to face .
It is weird that people sit around the table but all face their phones instead of talking with each other .
If there is a joke on their Facebook page , they may talk to others in this way : " Hi , look , how ridiculous this is " ; then they laugh together .
No matter whether it is a party , a dinner , or just simply a get-together , there are always some people bowing their heads and playing on their phones , even while their family and friends are in front of them .
In conclusion , there are both advantages and disadvantages of using social media in daily life .
People should enjoy the advantages of social media while being aware of the disadvantages , and trying their best to avoid the disadvantages happening to them and their friends and family .
Today 's world is considered to be the era of social media sites , like Facebook and Twitter , which are attractively connecting people around the world .
However , some people worry that social networks can affect interpersonal skills because they reduce face-to-face human contact .
The advantages and disadvantages of using such social media sites in society are elaborated on as follows .
Nobody can deny social media 's advantages in the benefit it provides in connecting people , regardless of nationality , race , culture , and language .
Social media is a trending topic and an excellent means of communication .
First , social media brings convenience to the world .
It has erased the boundaries of distance and time .
There are no longer any worries about the time it takes to deliver letters and packages .
Nowadays , thanks to the help of social media , with just one click , you can contact your family and friends wherever you want .
You can share photos , videos , and every meaningful experiences of your life .
More importantly , it is cheap and easy to use social media .
Second , the social media network opens the door of opportunity for people , due to its great benefit in connecting them .
Many recent graduates can find jobs , thanks to Facebook and Twitter .
Young people can widen their relationships , meet new friends , and learn wonderful things in many parts of the world .
In the business area , social media is a good tool to develop and advertise products and services .
On the other hand , social media also has disadvantages that have had worrisome effects on society and have made it a controversial phenomenon .
More and more young people spend most of their time in the social media world and reduce face-to-face human contact , which can affect interpersonal skills and relationships in real life .
First and foremost , we should realize that the social media world is not trustworthy and real .
People can invent the personality and characteristics they want .
They can become anyone .
Although social media does create relationships , relationships and friendships are only firm and real if people have gone through experiences and communication in face-to-face interactions .
There is a story of a girl who lived in the social media world every night for eight years .
In a chat room , she developed a close relationship with eight people .
She talked with them every night , trusted them and shared her life with them .
Then , one day , she discovered that all eight people were actually a single person who was chatting with her using eight different identities .
Furthermore , the convenience of social media is also its weakness .
A lot of people use identifying information on social media sites , which can lead to crimes and deception .
People can use their information to deceive family and friends and banks to do bad things such as blackmail , steal from ATMs , and so on .
Last but not least , social media affects human interpersonal skills when people increase the time they spend on social sites and reject chances to interact with people through normal daily activities .
Recent research has shown that the more time people spend on social media sites , the less ambitious they become .
As a result , if this unexpected trend continues , it will negatively affect the young generation .
To summarize , everything has its own pros and cons .
So do social media networks .
It not only is convenient and beneficial for connecting people and developing business , but it also can damage people 's relationships and interpersonal skills .
Social media is only beneficial as long as we know how to use it in a correct and suitable way ; to develop people 's potential to the fullest , use of social media sites must be combined with normal daily interaction .
