Keeping the Secret of Genetic Testing
What is genetic risk ?
Genetic risk refers to genetic factors affecting your chance of inheriting a disorder or disease .
People get certain diseases because of an inherited genetic predisposition .
How much a genetic predisposition tells us about your chance of developing a disorder is not always clear .
If your genetic results indicate that you have genetic factors associated with an increased risk of heart disease , it does not mean that you definitely will develop heart disease .
The opposite is also true .
If your genetic results show that you do not have changes associated with an increased risk of heart disease , it is still possible that you develop heart disease .
However for some rare diseases , people who have certain gene changes are guaranteed to develop the disease .
When we are diagnosed with a certain genetic disease , are we suppose to disclose this result to our relatives ?
My answer is no .
We do not want this potential danger causing firghtenning affects in our family 's lives in the future .
When people around us know that we have a certain disease , their atitudes can change in a couple of ways ; they may want to smother us or keep theit distance .
Neither reavtion is what we want. We really just want to live as normal people .
Surrounded by such concerns , it is very likely that we are too distracted .
It is a concern that will be with us during our whole life , because we will never know when the ''potential bomb '' will explode .
On the other hand , if there are ways that can help us control or cure the disease , we can go through the process from the whole family .
For an example , if exercising is helpful for preventing potential disease , we can always look for more chances for the family to go exercise .
And we keep track of all family members health conditions .
At the same time , we are prepared to know when there are other members got this disease .
Here I want to share Forest'view on this issue .
Although some people feel that an individual who is found to carry a dominant gene for Huntington 's disease has an ethical obligation to disclose that fact to his or her siblings , there currently is no legal requirement to do so .
In fact , requiring someone to communicate his or her own genetic risk to family members who are therefore also at risk is considered by many to be ethically dubious . ''
"
Nothing is absolute right or wrong .
If a certain genetic test is very accurate and it is unavoidable and necessary to get treatment and known by others , it is OK to disclose the result .
Above all , life is more important than a secret .
Genetic risk does carry consequences and should n't be taken lightly within the family circle .
After all , what affects one family might not affect another family the same way , despite a common genetic make up shared by either parent .
In cases where an individual has learned of a genetic disorder , disclosing the news to relatives is solely a matter of preference guided by that person 's moral system .
The issue of one 's " right to know '' is highly debatable and while it 's a genetic risk , one can not be entirely sure because the trait could come from families on either side -- maternal and paternal uncles , aunts or cousins .
This also means that as soon a person becomes aware of their genetic profile , they concurrently have knowledge about others , too .
This knowledge may be relevant to them , and vice versa .
An example that illustrates this is breast cancer .
It is hereditary .
Does one who suffers from this disease keep it a secret or inform their relatives ?
In retrospect , it 's also one 's duty to ensure that they undergo periodic health-checks on their own .
Sometimes , family structure and cultural beliefs can influence patterns of communication .
Depending on the patient in whom the genetic risk is discovered -- whether it 's the son or daughter , for example -- the parents who know about it would decide who is told and who takes precedence as far as being " allowed '' to tell .
For example , within a family , parents ( either adult at risk ) were seen as having the primary responsibility to pass on information to offspring , regardless of who first received genetic information .
In addition , a woman testing positive for BRCA1 is expected to allow siblings to disclose the information to nieces or nephews instead of doing so herself , although this may be further complicated by the responses from relatives who 'd prefer not to know .
Hence , there was also tension if participants felt they could neither pass information on to relatives who needed to know ( such as nieces and nephews ) nor persuade those with authority ( parents ) to do so .
The notion of authority also extended 'vertically ' .
For example , a grandmother may have more authority to pass on information than an aunt. This is true , even when she is not at genetic risk herself , while the aunt is .
From a practitioner 's perspective , these findings are important because if lay constructs of the family and kinship are a social construct , they may not be in line with geneticists ' views of family relationships. They also may counter theories about which blood ( or non-blood ) relatives should be informed and by whom ; this is also likely to be dependent on the cultural and ethnic context .
Ultimately , one must bring attention to who may benefit from such information ; as well as assisting those at risk to make considered decisions about disclosure .
Whose duty it is to inform/not inform at risk relatives greatly depends on the persons morality , as well as the nature of how direct he risk is to the relative .
People with close blood relationships generally carry some similar genes .
In this case , if one of the family members , or close relatives , is found to carry genetic risk , it is better for the patient to tell his or her close relatives about the issue and let others known about the risk so that his or her family members have the option to perform some daily exercises , possibly preventing the potential disease , or go to the hospital and have themselves tested for genetic risk factors .
Although announcing that one carries a genetic risk factor means a loss of privacy , in my opinion , it is a necessary obligation of the carrier to tell his relatives about his health issue , thereby enabling them to possibly prevent a predisposition from becoming an actual disease .
I agree with this statement , to a large extent .
Let us focus on the negative side of announcing genetic risk first .
Large numbers of patients with genetic risk factors might prefer to keep their situation private , not only because they are carriers , but because their genetic risk indicates they have a predisposition to manifest a particular type of disease .
Young , single people might especially wish to keep their carrier status secret , since their carrier status indicates that their children could have the same genetic risk factors .
A single carrier might believe that keeping the information from his future spouse helps the relationship .
Carriers might also believe that announcing the potential risk would cause unnecessary panic , as genetic factors need not manifest as disease , causing family members to make unwarranted hospital visits , take additional tests , and purchase additional medications , thereby incurring financial strain on the family .
Carriers might also believe that announcing their genetic risk could affect their relationships , causing some people to keep their distance for fear of catching the carrier 's disease .
On the other hand , if the genetic risk is kept as a secret , although it may benefit the carrier to a certain extend and help to keep the privacy , but it has much larger negative impacts to the family members and relatives .
For the case of marriage , people should be honest and tell his/her spouse they may carry certain genetic risk that may affect their offspring .
It is better to let the other party know the fact than after the baby is born and a genetic disease is found .
It is better for both parties to be honest .
Secondly , genetic disease has a close relationship with their daily habits .
For example , if a carrier is told that he/she has the risk to have diabetes .
In this case , the carrier can eat less candy and chocolate to prevent intake to much sugar and at the same time , if the carrier tells this information to close relatives , it will be useful for them to know that they may have diabetes in the future because of related genes .
Otherwise , if the other parties did not know , they may end up diabetes in the future without any prevention .
In conclusion , the risk of telling family members out weighs the costs of doing so .
Therefore , they would be obligated to tell their relatives , in order to prevent potential disease through daily exercises .
Among all kinds of diseases , a large amount of disorders are caused by genetics .
Genetic disorders may or may not be a hereditary disease and it is sometimes hard to find out one is present .
It has long been in discussion whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives that his or her disease is caused by gene .
From the legal aspect , the answer is no. From the ethical aspect , the answer should be yes .
We ca n't make a law to push a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell his or her relatives about his genetic problem .
It is immoral and impractical .
Firstly , the diseases someone may or may not have is an entirely private matter .
Protection of personal privacy is a basic human right .
The law ca n't require people to reveal personal details that they 'd rather remain private .
It is violation of human rights and contrary to the law 's actual intention .
The spirit of the law includes fairness , too .
What is the basic difference between a genetic disorder and other disorders ?
It is discriminatory to pass a law only directed solely at genetic disorders .
Not to mention , such a law would be impractical , too .
A worthwhile law should be clear and easy to execute .
There are a number of problems , however , inherent in the execution of a carrier informing relatives of the genetic test results .
Firstly , what is the overall makeup of the extended family in terms of age ranges , etc. ?
For example , can a carrier inform just immediate family -- like parents and siblings -- or must extended family -- the grandmother 's sister 's son 's daughter 's nephew -- be told , too ?
If the answer is just to tell close relatives , it 's an unfair choice from a legal standpoint .
Other relatives might have the same potential for developing a disease of that type .
How can the government enact a law that actively prevents people from facing a potential future illness ?
From the ethical point of view , however .
As far as the carrier goes , one would think they 'd feel a responsibility to inform loved ones of the genetic test results .
This way , it 's possible they 'll even save a life or two among their family members .
This is because some carriers who have the gene might still avoid the illness , perhaps via an aggressively healthy lifestyle prior to the cell 's period of strength in later life .
A typical example is genetically induced hypertension .
Genetic risk factors can cause a carrier to have an excess of fat and salt in the blood , due to poor digestion , leading to hypertension .
People usually get this kind of hypertension after they become an adult .
The stress of knowing they have the gene may put carriers at a higher risk of getting hypertension .
One thing they can do is build good daily habits , such as eating less salt and fat , thereby avoiding hypertension .
In a nutshell , our society ca n't push a person with a genetic disorder to tell their relatives about it .
By doing so , potentially fewer loved ones will suffer from the genetic problem if made aware sooner .
In the age of rapid technological advancement , a lot of medical breakthroughs are made possible .
Genetic testing is made possible and available for one 's decision to undergo .
It is able to detect the illnesses or diseases and even a child 's odds of getting such a disorder .
Controversy is sure to arise , however , if informing one 's relatives of a known genetic risk becomes a dilemma for the carrier .
If knowledge of the genetic risk is divulged to all relatives , those who share the trait might find out early enough to take some precautions in the interest of prevention .
If it is , however , a terminal genetic disease , the news could be devastating for many members of the family .
Some carriers , therefore , will believe that keeping it secret is best .
This essay will discuss whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should inform relatives .
The genetic risk that is found should be kept secret since it is considered personal information , some say .
Many patients will be depressed after realizing this condition of theirs .
If one has a genetic disease after the test , he or she might not wish to inform the relatives as he might ended up dishearten his extended family .
And some will for sure wish to keep such conditions to themselves and ensure that no hard feelings fall onto their family .
Also some will wish not to burden anyone with the information .
So , for some , keeping information about one 's genetic risk for disease confidential could be seen as considerate .
On the other hand , some may view it as more considerate to inform all family members , given the higher likelihood they 'll possess the same genetic trait .
That way , they can turn to medical specialists in hopes of a cure or to employ some prevention measures and decrease their risk .
Nevertheless , it depends on the nature of the genetic disease in question , considering the context of current medical technology .
Breast cancer , for instance , is a genetic disease and can be cured if caught in its early stages .
Hence , with the knowledge of having genetic risk , relatives of this genetic disease can preform a medical check-up , which could possibly discover the disorder at an earlier stage .
In conclusion , it will be considerate to inform his or he relatives the risk of getting the same genetic disease .
Although there might be a lot of challenges along the way in seeking medical attention , such as financial issues , everyone should be given the rights of knowing their family 's inherited medical conditions .
However , some think that it might be better for those who are ignorant about it and will continue lead a happy life .
In addition , some may think that even knowing about having genetic risk of the disease , it will just add on misery as there is nothing that they can do about it .
All in all , it depends on the individual and also the nature of the disease , but one should be obligated to inform relatives if a cure is discovered or preventative measures can be taken .
Genetic testing is a personal decision , given the knowledge that one might possibly be a carrier .
Those born into a family with a history of genetic disease should be allowed to undergo genetic testing , even if there is no risk at all .
Early pre-examination is a healthy decision since it dispels unwanted doubt and positively affects the psychology of those who are affected .
Genetic risk carriers should be given the opportunity to choose whether to inform relatives or not .
They should not feel obligated to do one thing or another , or allow tension to emotionally impact the carrier .
In a choice like this , certain standards exist which regulate one 's personal freedom of decision making .
If the genetic risk carrier is underage , then deciding to inform relatives is a decision requiring parental knowledge and approval .
Such patients are emotionally volatile and may not appreciate the consequences caused by this kind of genetic disorder , simply because they 're too young to do so .
Furthermore , the act of informing others without parental consent , and against the wishes of the patient itself , could be psychologically damaging to the affected family .
Therefore , when it comes to the immediate family , much turmoil could result , either on the part of relatives or the patient themselves .
Some relatives may be concerned about the family 's reputation -- not to mention their own pride -- in relation to this news of familial genetic defectiveness .
The patient , however , has a responsibility and , because of the genetic component , a duty to inform relatives .
It 's possible for the disorder to impact not only immediate relatives , but also anybody in the family tree .
Informing relatives of genetic issues is vital , both to raise awareness and also to aid prevention .
Also , this knowledge will help relatives to make informed decisions and to similarly undergo genetic testing to find an outcome .
Thus , having the knowledge that such a genetic disorder is benign would be beneficial towards their emotional well-being .
And if the results turn out to be otherwise , then the family can be prepared emotionally and psychologically for the future outcome and assist in making upcoming decisions .
In addition , the genetic risk carrier would be showered with moral and emotional support from their relatives if they are made aware .
Having support from relatives is vital as it ensures the genetic risk carrier that he/she is not alone in facing this illness and it will certainly provide a morale boost as the whole family will share a common sentiment with regards to the future prospect of the genetic disorder which could be inherited by anyone in the family .
While the decision to inform relatives about genetic preconditions can depend on the situation and background of the carrier , the choice should rest with the carrier .
A person with a genetic predisposition , regardless of their mental or physical capacity , should be made aware of their risk .
As genetic issues come more into play , it is no longer that simple .
While genetic risk factors are inherited from generation to generation , not all offspring will manifest the symptoms of the disease to which they have an inherited predisposition .
It 's possible for members of a family with genetic risk factors to show no outwardly visible signs of the condition to which they are predisposed .
As a result , when one of the members happens to feel uncomfortable or not normal , he or she should be aware of whether or not the disorder is a genetic risk or not .
Afterward , the carrier will face a serious ethical decision of whether to reveal the problem to relatives or not .
If the disorder symptoms appear in a child , the parent will be informed by the medical professionals for sure and then the whole family can stay alert to their bodies ' condition .
On contrary , if the carrier is an adult who can choose whether to inform relatives about the risk or not , it becomes more complex .
One would think that if the carrier cares for and loves his/her family , there would be no doubt that they would inform the family of the issue .
This is true and , of course , most family members feel a duty to protect their kin and most would n't have it any other way .
In other words , if the youngest child is aware of potential health problems down the line and understands his own genetic risk , then he also knows his children , too , will face the same concern , creating a lifelong dilemma with serious consequences .
Most likely , he 'll also review his marriage and child-rearing plans , possibly even revise them , which applies to affected cousins , as well .
As a result , the natural process of familial continuity , generation after generation , could grind to a halt in light of the genetic news .
In China , the older generation with traditional culture background , will always think of having more children as well as grandchildren , to make the family liven up and stronger .
The reason behind it is that after WOWII the population of China decreased dramatically and so the government encouraged people to have more children .
During that period , if one of the family members reflected a presence of genetic disorder symptoms , he would find himself facing an ethical dilemma for sure .
The medical treatment technology during that time was not advanced enough to completely cure him .
He had to choose whether to protect his family or make his family more prosperous despite a potential genetic risk .
And so , he would have chosen not to undergo genetic disorder testing and let the truth be hidden forever .
This kind of ethical issue can not be judged by others , because many people might not understand how the carrier feels in that spot , and the sense of responsibility it creates .
In conclusion , people should think carefully about telling relatives of genetic disorder issues , and the possible consequences .
It is an obligation for a carrier to inform loved one , but also an obligation for a relative to enliven the family .
Regardless , if the disorder is n't fatal and it causes the carrier almost zero inconvenience , revealing the truth is always the right thing to do .
In my opinion , the carrier should tell relatives about it .
One of the reasons is that , as a carrier , they need strong psychological support to get through this situation .
It will prove difficult for most individuals to deal with this kind of issue by themselves .
Once informed , family members can provide support and also help discover alternative solutions to the problem currently being faced .
Other than that , it 's clear those strongly felt family bonds serve as the carrier 's chief source of support .
Furthermore , since it 's a genetic problem , the family is better off being informed because a relative might be experiencing the same thing .
By making sure that they are aware of this genetic problem , they could have a full check-up for themselves and it will be better if they could even prevent it from happening to themselves .
I find that it is important to inform especially if it is contagious , the carrier could prevent the disease from spreading out to the society .
For every action there is always pros and cons .
I believe that some of the carriers will choose to not reveal their disease to the family members as they do not want to make their family members worry and feel uncomfortable or even feel ostracized by them .
Furthermore , as it could incur spending a lots of money for the treatment , the carrier might not want to be the burden in her family .
I could understand the feeling of the carrier .
He or she do not want to be the source of unhappiness in the family .
However , we will never know whether this negative effect will happen when the carrier decides to tell the family of his or her condition .
In conclusion , I personally feel that it is better for the carrier to inform her family members about the issue .
The carrier should be honest with their feelings and I find that it is the right of the family member to know what is going on in his or her life .
If something bad happened to befall the carrier and the family had never been notified of the situation , the regret would be strong should the carrier pass away without revealing the truth .
On top of that , it is better to explore solutions for the problem with family members included instead of uninvolved , because putting their heads together is a better idea than struggling alone .
In the end , family support -- mentally and probably monetarily , too -- will be a huge help in the carrier 's fight with genetic disease .
True enough that there are many cancer patients enjoying a second chance at a normal life , and relying on strong support from family .
In my opinion , as long as we keep our minds healthy and strong , we can fight any disease that might befall us when we 're fragile and weak .
As the techonology has been advancing , it has reached a stage whereby the advancement triggers some ethical dilemmas in relation to the acutual use of the techonology .
Genetic testing has made it possible to easily find out if one is a carrier of a known genetic risk factor .
When used for a good purpose , genetic testing can prevent unnecessary unhappiness , although it can also make situations worse by revealing who the carrier in the family is .
As to the question of whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives , I believe that the carrier should not be obligated to do so as he or she has the right to keep their information private .
Firstly , genetic testing is not something that is compulsory .
Of course , some people may do it to make their futures slightly happier , however , the carrier , before the testing , can choose not to go for the test and simply live with unknowns and accept the facts .
If he chooses to live in the uncertainty that the gene holds and willing to accept it , he could do that , and it has been something that is 'normal ' to everyone in the past as genetic testing was not possible .
It could rather be better for him or her this way .
Some people might say that it is a form of prevention of giving birth to disabled lives and making them suffer in real-life .
I personally think this is the right purpose of going through the genetic testing , so that a family who can not afford to have a disabled kid do not have to give birth to their child and make the entire family suffer .
However , I believe that the carrier has right not to tell anyone but has responsibility to take an action to prevent any ethical dilemma .
If the result turned out that the carrier can not accept it , then it would have been better not knowing the truth .
I belive that even the carrier has the right not to know the true fact .
After realizing the he or she is the carrier , the emotional damage would be hard to bear .
It could possibly causes a problem in a family due to the fact and creates more unhappiness int the family .
Overall , I believe that it entirely depends on the carrier , on his willingness to share the hard facts and to face them with relatives , as he remains under no obligation to tell .
In fact , I strongly believe the carrier should weigh both the positive and negative consequences of taking the genetic testing before getting the results and taking appropriate action .
The emotional depression the carrier could get , his sense of guilt , could be more than expected , creating a burden in the carrier 's mind for the rest of his life .
On the other hand , not knowing about any genetic disorder means that the family has no painful knowledge to accept , allowing them to stay positive and work together to overcome the disability .
Under such circumstances , I think the family with stay mentally healthy and have less emotional stress overall .
Whether or not a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to inform his or her relatives is a debate that has been around for years .
Any individual at risk for a disorder has the right to undergo genetic testing , but whether the results should be released to others , especially close family or relatives , is a topic worth discussing .
As this poses a family-related ethical dilemma , this issues needs to be addressed .
In this essay , there will be few arguments pointed out that are in the support of any carrier of that known genetic risk telling his or her relatives .
When we were born , we were surrounded by family and relatives welcoming us to this new world .
We are crying heavily but we do n't feel alone because our family helps us grow up .
Hence , they 're the people for whom we should feel grateful and with whom we wish to celebrate our joy .
However , in cases pertaining to health issues or extending all the way to serious disorders , disclosing the information may seem pointless -- but it 's about more than just sharing bad news .
One definitely has the right to disclose health issues to anyone they choose , but it 's also their responsibility to inform immediate family and close relatives .
As is the case with health issues related to genetic risk , the keyword is " genetic '' and its emphasis on the risk of passing disorders down to the next generation .
Therefore , I agree that carriers of known genetic risk have an obligation to inform relatives and help prevent any future ethical dilemmas within the family .
Although many would argue it 's still the individual 's choice to divulge or withhold that information , it certainly helps to share with family members and explore solutions together .
By doing so , one will feel less stress dealing with the disorder and its associated risks .
Relatives will certainly be caring and supportive for the carrier of a known genetic risk .
By informing them , the carrier is never alone in fighting battles such as the disorder and its risks .
On top of that , since genetic risk can pass to next generation , more than just one family will be affected .
Therefore , I would agree there 's an obligation to inform relatives on either side if a marriage is pending and if having children is being considered .
This would prevent future family-related ethical dilemmas from popping up .
There are additional , intangible advantages supporting the argument for full disclosure once the test is finished and results are received .
In conclusion , to avoid family-related ethical dilemmas , it 's best for a carrier of a known genetic risk to inform all relatives .
The benefits of doing so outweigh the disadvantages .
More , as well as different types of support and direction , need to be afforded for carriers of genetic risk , especially those standing on the verge of deciding whether to inform their relatives regarding their condition .
The decision to undergo genetic testing can only be made by the individual at risk for a disorder .
More than just the accepted way society works , this is the law .
Since only the carrier can decide to get tested and receive the results , the problem emerges , does the information the carrier learns create an obligation that he tell his relatives about his condition ?
This issue has been discussed for a long time .
However , there is still a diverse of point of view among the people .
Thus , we are going to identify the advantages and disadvantages of the issue which is " should or should not '' .
Firstly , I believe most of us will agree with the sentences below : " I will be anxious about my families when he or she told me that he or she was a carrier of a known genetic risk '' .
Frequently , the intention of the carriers does not want to tell their families are to continue their own life without the anxious of families .
It is obvious that there will be better for one person to be worried than many .
However , many of the carriers are not strong enough to overcome the challenges oneself .
With the family 's support , there must be more energy to fight against the demon .
A Demon is not easily defeated and requires much energy and psychological support .
Family 's give you the courage and support which you can not retrieve by yourself .
They are the most essential elements in overcoming the challenges .
Besides that , the risk of the known genetic is very serious .
The seriousness of the situation can be larger than our imagination .
It 's hard to picture being bed ridden and even dying .
Our family is very important part of our life .
It can be hard , during such a difficult time , to keep focused and stay grounded without the concern and support of our families .
They play an important role in our life , one which can not be substituted .
A known genetic risk can critically affect the next generation as well .
As carriers , it is our responsibility to tell our relatives , thereby preventing the occurrence of undesired consequences .
Generally , the clinic , or hospital , will not tell the carrier 's family without the agreement of the carrier .
It is the duty of staff in hospital to guard the confidentiality of any patients .
We can not reproach them when they are liable to the consequences .
However , the hospital can provide a counselor to advise the carrier about what action can be taken .
Therefore , these kind of circumstances will not continue to happen again and again .
It is a method that benefits both parties , which is a win-win situation .
In conclusion , a carrier of a known genetic risk should be encouraged to tell his or her relatives about the known genetic risk .
However , there may be some special cases .
Thus , advice from the hospital plays the important role in this .
The carrier is responsible for balancing his or her own interests and the interests of his or her own family , and even the interests of society .
It is a hard decision to make but , done in an appropriate way , it will have a positive outcome for the carrier and their future family .
With knowledge that a risk may exist , many individuals undergo genetic testing .
Once results are known , individuals diagnosed as at-risk face an ethical problem : should they inform family members who may very possibly share the same risk ?
Or should they stay silent until the next carrier is diagnosed ?
In my view , an at-risk carrier should n't be obligated to inform relatives , for the following reasons .
First of all , forcing genetic risk carriers to inform others is wrong from a human rights perspective ,
This diagnosis can be regarded as a kind of privacy to carriers .
They may not want this truth to influence their life and want to keep it as a secret or do not others know about it .
This is reasonable since the exposure of the truth of being a carrier may make them be discriminated or sympothized by others which are not positive factors brought into to their life .
Seconly , the relatives of the carrier can also choose to do genetic testing regardless of the dignosis of the carrier .
When people want to check whether they are genetic risk carriers , they can go and approach a doctor to consult about it .
They might just ignore the possibility if they do not want to be troubled by it .
However , the relatives will be forced to know about their higher chances of being at risk if the diagnosed carrier is obligated to tell them .
They will have to accept the truth even if it makes their life miserable .
Many people argue that the relatives are being saved from life-threatening complications if they are diagnosed early as a result of the carrier 's obligation to warn them .
However , other factors including psychological and social influence need to be taken into consideration before it is decided whether or not this is true .
If one relative is told that he or she may have a higher risk of getting sick , he or she may be scared about the unknown life ; partners , spouse and colleagues may choose to leave ; and many other situations may happen which mean the relative 's life may be ruined .
On the other side , as stated above , a person who wants to confirm and has been prepared to face the result can choose to do the genetic testing individually .
In a nutshell , a carrier of a known genetic risk should have the right to decide whether to tell their relatives .
This should be accepted as a human right , freedom of acceptance of relatives as well as many other social reasons .
Otherwise , making it an obligation will restrict the choice of carriers and bring a lot of confusion to their relatives .
Knowing that you are a carrier of a genetic order can cause more dilemmas than actually getting the disorder .
I agree that a carrier of a known genetic risk is obligated to tell his or her relatives .
There are four reasons why people should share their problems regarding genetic disorders .
First , the carrier and his or her family can take precautions to reduce the chance of it being inherited by offspring and to prepare mentally if it is inherited .
Many syndromes , such as Down Syndrome and Taylor Syndrome , can be prevented if the mother undergoes proper medication and a proper diet during pregnancy .
The mother may never know this information if she withholds the truth of her condition from her relatives .
When the number of informed relatives increases , so do available information channels .
If , despite all best efforts , a child is still born afflicted , the family has no choice but to accept the fact and provide as healthy and happy an environment as possible .
This is hardly the parent 's fault since the possibility of inheriting the gene still exists .
Therefore , they must prepare mentally as well .
Secondly , genetic diseases have high costs for treatment and medication .
Albinism is one example .
People with albinism have sensitive skin that needs regular treatment .
Unlike people with a higher proportion of skin pigment , those with albinism are prone to sunburns and other skin diseases .
If they do n't protect their skin well , such as by using sunglasses or wearing sunscreen outdoors , there is a good chance they will encounter skin problems that can also lead to cancer .
Once you have cancer , the medication cost is very expensive .
To prevent the bigger problem from happening , it takes a lot of effort to take care of your body .
If the individual does n't tell his or her relatives , it may be too late to get their support and prepare financially .
Lastly , some diseases are not noticeable and may lead to serious health problems .
One of the diseases is having a sickle cell trait .
Usually people are not aware that they carry the sickle cell gene , and this may lead to circulatory problem such as blood blocking .
If the parents know that one of them is a carrier and disclose this information to their relatives , then they can have their children undergo genetic testing without being shy of it , because it is for the sake of their children 's health .
Fourthly , it is important for the parents to give mental encouragement to their children with a genetic disorder .
When their children become teenagers , a lot of social problems may arise .
People and friends often mock your conditions .
A strong mental conviction must be built from within and encouraged from loved ones .
Who else but the family would be willing to do that ?
It is not a burden to the family if they can prepare mentally by disclosing the risk of their children suffering from a genetic disorder .
Technologies in the modern world have improved greatly compared to the last century .
There is great improvement particularly in the medical field where many treatments , genetic testing , and other methods of diagnosing are available for formally incurable diseases and individuals at risk for genetic disorders .
The medical authorities claim that only the individual who is at risk for a genetic disorder can make the decision to undergo genetic testing .
However , once a test has been conducted and the results are known , a family-related ethical dilemma is born .
The question is whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should tell his or her relatives .
In my opinion , the carrier of a known genetic risk has to tell his or her relatives about this .
This is because his or her relatives have the right to know about this .
As most people know , genetic disorders can impact any or even all family members. If one person 's at risk , everyone shares that risk equally. It 's a serious situation deserving serious consideration .
Every family member has a basic human right to know the truth .
If they 're prevented from knowing the truth about their potential genetic risk , it 's easy to argue that their rights have been violated. Simple as that .
For example , imagine John learns he is genetically at risk but chooses to withhold the information from James , his brother .
Although the knowledge may be frightening for James , he deserves to know what the future may hold .
Awareness of the risk could be beneficial for him in the future .
It 's also important to note that informing relatives could lead to preventative measures on their part , possibly allowing them to avoid the disorder altogether .
Genetic disorders are innate , but dramatic medical advances make successful prevention a possibility and , if not , carriers can potentially lessen the negative effects once they know what they 're dealing with .
Also , a familiar medical maxim -- " An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure '' -- serves as a good reminder that curing the disorder is much less desirable than simply avoiding it all together .
Awareness of one 's genetic disorder may aid a doctor 's diagnosis and potentially make prevention a real possibility .
Hypertension , for example , is often attributable to genetics , but environmental factors play an equally important role .
Informed family members can delay or possibly even prevent future problems altogether by adopting healthy new habits. Simple things , such as a balanced diet and 30 minutes of daily exercise can help dramatically .
All things considered , an at-risk carrier has an obligation to tell relatives the truth .
Morally and ethically , it 's their right to know -- and the knowledge may just save their lives .
Modern medicine has advanced with increasing rapidity decade after decade , and lifesaving technology is now developing with exponential speed , Empowering doctors to diagnose and discover previously hidden genetic disorders and protect their patients in a proactive and previously impossible manner. Once results are in , however , the decision to tell relatives presents a challenge to doctor and patient alike. To me , the patient 's obligation seems obvious and , without a doubt , informing relatives is imperative .
As it is a genetic risk , the patient 's next-of-kin might have a high chance of carrying the risk , hence the need to inform their relatives is important so that necessary preventative actions could be taken before unforeseen circumstances might occur. For example , if you are the only child in a family and unfortunately you are suffering from a genetic disease , that the genetic trait might be passed on to your next generation. If you have a child , hence by letting your family members aware of the situation , it would lessen family stresses and suffering on forcing you to settle down and have children. However , social and ethical issues like discrimination and privacy are big concerns and potential barriers to enforce patients or doctors to disclose information to patients ' relatives. It challenges the confidentiality and privacy principles. Currently , under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ( HIPAA ) in the United States , there is no legal obligation requirement to disclose information to relatives. It is up to the patient 's wish to disclose to their family members. Early disclosement to family members brings in positive reaction and prevention , as in the case of Angelina Jolie. She chose to disclose information and underwent treatment to reduce the risk of breast cancer significantly to under five percent. I still can recall , her reason for disclosing her own story was that she does not want to live under the shadow of cancer .
However , there are still people against the decision of revealing private information.As in the case of Alzheimer patients , it is up to the patient 's own choice to disclose information.However , research has shown that doctors have tried to interpret who , how and whom will Alzheimer disease be disclosed to minimise potential negative impact to families members ( DementiaToday , 2012 ) .There are associations provide helps to Alzheimer patients like Alzheimer 's Association ( Alzheimer 's Association , 1980 ) .Although there are still thousand of genetic risk diseases out there that might not be receiving all helps and supports from everyone , the needs to receive immediate understanding and support from family members is an utmost help that patients need in their difficult time .
In conclusion , the state should have passed a legal bill to measure and provide information to doctors that till which extend should a doctor opt to reveal to relatives members about the genetic disease and in which situations it is open to patient 's decision.In addition , the state could also encourage to create assistance schemes to aid necessary help to needy patients to encourage them to open up for the benefit of own and family members.Although it may face challenges from social ethic issues , in a long term , with appropriate encouragement and aid from the government , more individuals would have a different view of acceptance and take appropriate measurements to protect their own health and their loved ones .
Nowadays , the study in the genetic field has gone further and further due to the high-velocity technological advancement .
Not long ago , the human genome project sponsored by several large multinational corporations ( MNCs ) has been started .
In comparison , the field of genetic testing enables people to be aware of the risk of a possible genetic disorder , and the technology is very mature already as even more popular topic arise .
While most people agree that each individual has his or her right to decide whether to undergo a genetic test , they have different beliefs whether it is the patient 's responsibility to share the result with his or her relatives .
In my opinion , the patients that are carriers of some known genetic risk should share the truth with their family members .
Admittedly , it is a social obligation to be responsible for the lifes of other people .
To the whole society , it is a duty .
Take H1N1 , for example. In Singapore , all citizens -- including students , travelers in and out of Changi Airport , office workers , and the man on the street -- are required by law to monitor their temperature and report results to relevant government authorities .
To loved ones , it is also a moral obligation .
How can they withhold the the truth in good conscience , knowing they 're endangering family members ?
The basis of a family is , without doubt , love and trust .
Without love and trust , what 's the difference between family and simple strangers ?
Hence , it is essential that they tell their family members about the risk of their genetic disorder , both as a social responsibility and to maintain the family base .
Moreover , telling their family members the truth is the fastest and easiest way to get their support .
Without the support of loved ones , a patient 's life is no better than death .
Family members , as one of the closest groups of people from whom they can get comfort , are a crucial factor for them to successfully get over any possible troubles as a result of the genetic disorder .
A study from New York University in 2010 demonstrates that patients with family members around generally recover 2-4 days faster than those taken care of by professional nurses .
Even for those patients with terminal diseases , the duration of their survival is 30 % longer due to family support .
Some people may say that telling the truth may lead to unnecessary doubt and panic , which will affect the family 's harmony .
While every family goes through troublesome situations , the more trouble ta family has gone through together , the greater the bond between family members as well as the development of a greater amount of trust , love and understanding .
Hence , for a family to truly believe in and love each other , all troubles will make them stronger .
Just like Kelly Clarkson 's lyrics , what does n't kill you makes you stronger .
Living in an Asian society where genetic testing is not a common practice , I do think that it is the choice of the patient whether he or she wants to tell his or her relatives about his or her disease .
Telling their relatives about the genetic testing before receiving the results may result in judgement , even though it is just a risk and not a confirmed case .
Furthermore , since it is the person 's gene that is affected , he has the right to determine with whom he wants to share the information with .
Nevertheless , while I feel that a carrier should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives about the genetic risk , I would like to suggest the person at least share the information with her or his potential partner ( husband or wife ) since the individual 's genetic risk may affect their future children .
Many people in our society are not well informed about many genetic diseases and may judge those who have genetic diseases since they feel that the patients are abnormal or 'weird ' .
This is because many relate genetic diseases to those such as Bubble-Boy disease , autism , or down-syndrome .
In those diseases , many who are affected do actually have different physical characteristics compared to those without the genetic diseases .
While we do know that we should not discriminate them based on their limitations , many people still do it with or without realizing it .
In this particular case , we are discussing about whether a person should tell his relatives about their having a RISK of a particular genetic disease .
It is normal for people to demand a fair and similar treatment as the others , and therefore it is normal for people to try to keep some of their secrets or personal issues to themselves in case some people judge them or treat them differently. Many people really love to hear what they want to hear and therefore they may just ignore the word 'risk ' and assume that the person has suffered from the disease .
To avoid this , the choice belongs to the carrier and no one else. It 's a difficult decision with challenging repercussions ; family members may react badly , become paranoid , judge the carrier harshly and even act differently around them .
Especially when it 's merely a risk , the choice is his -- especially considering he 's not actually a sufferer .
Some may say telling family members is a necessity because loved ones might unknowingly be facing the same risk. It 's a valid point -- but for those with familial trust issues , it may not be enough .
Most can trust immediate family implicitly , but relatives and other extended family may be something else entirely .
Furthermore , since genetic risk is a very personal issue , it is up to the individual to determine whether or not relatives should know the truth .
As mentioned earlier , however , it 's preferable to at least share news of the potential risk with one 's future partner , since future children may be impacted .
At the very least , this information needs to be understood by a partner , ideally before marriage and definitely prior to having children .
In certain circumstances , husband and wife may both be carriers , in which case the very survival of future children could be called into question .
Or in less extreme cases , the child may suffer disabilities related to its parents ' condition ( s ) .
This information figures significantly in family planning. So although no one is obligated to share their genetic risk with others , the reasons why a partner should be informed are obvious .
In conclusion , it is the carrier 's choice whether or not the carrier tells his relatives because it is his body .
He may have different reasons for deciding whether or not he tells his family ; no matter what choice he makes , we need to respect it , and we have no right telling him he must tell his relatives .
We all know that life is priceless and we have no right to judge another person 's choices .
With technological improvements , genetic risks can be better detected .
Genetic refers to the chance of inheriting a disorder or disease .
Therefore an entirely new dilemma is born : should a carrier of a known genetic risk be obligated to tell relatives ?
This essay will discuss the reasons why a carrier is obligated to inform relatives that their children are at genetic risk .
One of the reasons that parents should be informed is they have to decide whether they are capable of raising a child with a genetic risk .
The child with a genetic risk may not have the ability to work , to strengthen the family as others can , and are often not accepted by the majority .
Unlike most people , they may not able to enjoy a normal life .
The world is a competitive place and it 's not kind to those struggling to survive .
Parents and extended family that find themselves taking care of a child unable to help himself face a significant , potentially lifelong , challenge .
It 's a difficult road that can be even tougher if illnesses like cancer or heart disease are involved. Besides the emotional cost , the actual medical expenses can be staggering .
The child will suffer , as will the entire family .
It 's a difficult decision to make at an early stage. Can they cope with a child who ca n't develop and may suffer a lifetime of pain ? How can they know ?
The other reason parents should know if their baby has a genetic risk is for the good of the nation .
There are always newspaper reports that a newborn baby has been abandoned at hospital after the parents realized the baby has diseases that will need a huge amount of money to cure .
For countries like Singapore , there is a shortage of manpower to contribute to the nation .
However , every year the government has to spend a lot to help the disablavled , such as medical subsidizes and building special schools to educate them .
Without increasing numbers of disabled people in a nation , the government is able to concentrate on development in other ways , like military and education .
As citizens of a nation , they have the responsibility to support their country in many ways .
Moreover , in the world we are living in today , many miscarriages occur in hospital every day .
It is easier for people to accept it morally .
Therefore , I believe parents have the right to know about the health of their child .
Many people support the theory that people have the right to enjoy the world , even those who are religious .
However , the problem is , will people really enjoy their life if they have to stay at a hospital everyday and deal with all the needles and endless pain ?
Parents know what 's best for their children , thus they will make the right decision after they have been informed .
Also , human beings should improve the medical field in order to prevent a tragedy from happening .
I think a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
Genetic testing is a personal choice .
An individual should have full control of his/her information and it is his/her right to decide whether or not to disclose it to someone else .
As far as I am concerned , when a couple is planning to have a baby , they should run a few tests to see whether their child could have some genetic disease .
The results are disclosed to the husband and the wife .
This is not the case I am talking about here .
The most obvious reason for this opinion is that the relatives of the carrier are at high risk of carrying these diseases .
They have the right to know whether or not they are at risk .
Also , telling them the result largely reduces the cost of multiple testing .
They can also take immediate measures to reduce the possibility of developing this disease .
If a person has disease C , that might be a result of gene A .
He runs a test , and knows that he has the gene AA .
This means both of his parents have gene A and they are both at high risk of having disease C. They could save the cost of runing two separate tests to see whether their child would have a high risk of having disease C by running one test to see if he has gene Aa .
This means one of his parents has gene A and the cost of one test could be saved .
His relatives can then take measures to prevent the disease from taking their lives .
However , this can also be because of personal choices .
One can choose if they want to tell their relatives they are at risk .
Most people care about their relatives , if there is no serious consequence of telling them so , I assume most of them will tell their relatives to be careful .
One might also choose to hint or encourage their certain relatives to run a gene test if they are concerned about negative consequences that come across when they disclose their genetic results .
There are possible negative consequences that those might face if they disclose their genetic results to their relative .
If a person is obliged to tell his or her relatives , they might be discriminated by those who do not carry this gene .
He or she might even be adviced not to get married or have children .
For example , if an unmarried person has gene Aa and gene aa is sufficient for a very serious disease .
After he takes the test and he will be obliged to tell his relatives , everyone will know that he is a carrier .
So all the married couples go to run a test and know they are not carriers. They might subconsiously see him as different and worry that he will find a wife who will carry this gene as well .
Third , it is hard to define relatives .
If a gene runs in the family and one of the family members test positive , whom does he need to tell .
Is he obliged to tell everyone if it is a big family ?
Spouses usually have very close relationships. If person A tells his family that he has this gene , his uncle would know to tell his wife that they need to test his cousin for this disease .
However , the wife is not even at risk for this disease .
The wife might tell her mother who likes to gossip on her way to the theater .
In less than a week , half of the town knows that person A has a risked gene and his entire family might also be genetically risked .
Then nobody will want to marry A , or A 's relative .
This is the potential consequence if one discloses their genetic risk , especially when they have a large group of relatives .
In conclusion , a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
The carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
Nowadays , people not only think of their own lives , but also the lives of following generations .
Now , thanks to modern medicine 's startling progress , genetic testing is a reality and predicting the future is n't so far-fetched. Any patient can quickly and easily understand their own risks and also those facing future generations .
It 's an ethical debate : what is a patient 's responsibility when it comes to informing relatives about their potential at-risk status ?
To me , it 's obvious. The patient has a responsibility to tell loved ones the truth .
There are two reasons why .
The first is a patient 's responsibility for their own wellness and their relatives ' health , and the second is the simple protection of future generations .
Your relatives knowing about your genetic risk is good for your own wellness and the health of your relatives .
This is because your carrying of the genetic risk increases the probability of your relatives , including parents and siblings , carrying the same genetic risk .
The genetic risk that you are carrying may or may not affect your health and put you in danger .
If you have n't undergone the genetic testing , it 's just up to odds what will happen to both you and your relatives .
However , if you have undergone testing and know that you are a carrier , you are responsible for telling your whole family .
Even though you can not eliminate the risk completely , you can at least try to be alert to avoid getting the disease .
As for those in your family who are more likely to be affected , they can go to the hospital and the checks regularly .
Therefore , telling the families and the relatives so they can get prepared for fighting the disease and even prevent the disease is your responsibility .
Furthermore , you are also being responsible for your next generations by telling the truth that you are a carrier of a genetic risk .
If your wife is not aware of the truth and she gives birth to the baby , it will be possible for your child to carry the same genetic risk as well .
Being the parent , you are not responsible to your offspring , since you allow the genetic risk to be passed on and are aware of it .
However , if you tell the truth to your wife , you offer a chance about whether to have a child and risk passing along the genetic risk .
If you decide to have a baby , it might be possible to use altering gene therapy to avoid the genetic disease .
This is the responsibility of being a parent .
In my opinion , this seems to be the main purpose of genetic testing .
As a conclusion , once you have undergone the genetic testing and are aware that you carry a specific genetic risk , you have a responsibility to yourself , and your following generations to inform them of the results .
Whether to inform them , or not inform them of the results .
If we have decided to undergo genetic testing and now know the results of our tests .
The results of the genetic testing confirmed that we are indeed a carrier .
We are then troubled as to whether inform our relatives of our results , as they may be at genetic risk as well .
There are so many things we need to consider .
Every choice we make may have a huge impact on our entire life .
What should we do as a result ?
Should we tell them or keep this secret until we die ?
Many people think that we should tell our relatives because we should care about their health .
Diabetes , for example , is a type of genetic disease .
Once we found we were carrying this genetic risk , it is better for us to tell our family members because they may carry it as well. Once genetic risk is discovered , notifying immediate and extended family members becomes a necessity. They too may be at risk .
Armed with the knowledge , loved ones may even adopt healthier habits , such as cutting down on sugary foods and maintaining a positive attitude .
For young people , it 's extremely important .
The sooner they 're aware , the more likely it is that new habits and attitudes will benefit their health .
Furthermore , they may undergo genetic testing as well to see whether or not they are carrying the gene , which is also better for them .
However , some people may argue , " Why interfere with their lives ? ''
It is sometimes extremely hard to accept this news , especially when they know they or their descendants may have a severe , blood disease which is untreatable .
Imagine you are living a normal life but suddenly one day your relative tells you that you may possibly encounter a disease in the future , how will you feel then ?
It may affect your daily life and you will think about it every day .
They become so anxious that they can not focus .
At the same time , there is a chance the result of the genetic test is incorrect which means we are bringing them needless worry and wasting their lives .
I personally feel our responsibility is to tell them the situation .
Since this will really affect their lives , we should do this in a positive way .
We can not let this go on as is .
We should know that although we may affect their lives , we can still let them make correct choices in the future .
It is only after we tell them that they will start paying attention to their health .
They will consider whether or not to give birth to a new baby because of this genetic problem , and they will start finding ways to help their baby avoid carrying this genetic risk as well .
They always have a choice about whether or not to undergo the genetic test .
Maybe after we tell them , they will go for the test and learn more about themselves .
I know it will have a huge impact on them , but we should know that they are our loved ones , we need to tell them and help them .
A genetic risk carrier should be obliged to tell others .
Genetic testing will be conducted when the individual is at risk of some possible disease .
Once the test is done , whether the results should be open to his or her relatives has caused much social controversy .
Some say it is a kind of invasion of privacy for the carrier and should be protected .
They have the right to tell no one , if so desired .
However , in my opinion , the carrier of a known genetic risk is obligated to tell relatives the truth of their situation .
This essay will illustrate two aspects .
First of all , it can alert family members to a disorder they may eventually face .
As we know , genetic risk carriers are likely to pass traits to other family members .
Once one person in the family is found to have genetic risk factors , other members in their family may also have the same risk factors .
Some diseases may not show symptoms until the carrier is older .
Therefore , telling relatives about the disease may avoid a lot of trouble and save more time for proper treatment .
Sometimes lives may be saved if they are told early enough to conduct timely treatment .
In consideration for other family members , they should be informed .
Secondly , families can avoid genetic diseases passed to the next generation , should they intend to have children .
They should let their potential spouse know about the situation prior to marriage .
They need to seek a doctor 's advice before planning to have a baby .
Some genetic genes will pass only to boys and some only to girls .
If the carrier does not disclose this information to their spouse , another life may have the risk of inheriting the genetic disease .
I noticed a true story of this in the newspaper years ago .
A couple in China have five year old son .
Unfortunately , their son fell ill and was diagnosed with a very serious genetic disease .
They were told that the wife 's family was carrying the polygenetic disorder and that it can pass only to boys .
Therefore , their son inherited the genetic disease .
However , the wife actually had already known about the polygenetic disorder before the marriage and she did not tell her husband .
The son died after a year of treatment and the couple got divorced later on .
If the wife had not hidden the truth and asked for a doctor 's advice before having a baby , the tragedy would not have happened .
In a nutshell , a carrier of a known genetic risk has the responsibility to tell his or her relatives .
On the one hand , they can tell members of the their family the disease they may be carrying and can obtain treatment in time , if possible .
On the other hand , the carrier may pass the disease to the next generation if he or she hides the truth .
Nowadays , with the advancement of technology , it is easy to do genetic testing .
We can not deny that genetic testing really helps people a lot when they are facing a medical disorder .
However , I think that genetic information is an individual 's personal privacy , which should be protected by law .
Therefore , I think someone with a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives .
There are three factors that led me to this conclusion .
Firstly , the information concerning the person with a genetic risk factor is something personal and should be kept as confidential as one 's ATM PIN .
Other people should not be given this information without the person 's permission even though they might be his or her family or relatives .
I believe the government should pass laws ensuring that this information is protected .
Once people 's genetic information is told to other people , irreversible damage may be done .
They may know the person 's potentially disabling disease or other bad things .
They may be biased against this person , even abandoning him .
People do not have the ability to choose their gene , so they should not be treated badly because of a bad gene .
I think whatever the genetic is or whether the gene is matched with their parents , it should not be told to anyone even his or her family or relatives .
Secondly , the carrier of a known genetic risk may destroy the peace of a family even break the relationship between children and the adult .
Once the family or relatives know , then the person usually does not have any relation with them .
However happy they were before , there would be some barrier appears which will truly destroy the family gradually .
The relationship between parents and children is deeper and tighter and should not be tested by genetics .
The parents teach and love the children , all the while feeling happy just in the company of their children .
Children just rely on the parents to live .
When they grow up , the children take care of the old parents and thank them for their dedication .
The relation between parents and children is built around love and dedication .
No one wants to see a broken family due to the carrier of a known genetic risk .
Therefore , I think a known genetic risk should not be required to tell his or her family and relatives without the person 's permission .
Finally , the technology of testing the gene is not currently very mature .
There is still the possibility of errors in tests .
If the errors with tests are not realized by the doctor , the family may feel a struggle their entire life .
So to avoid this hardship , if a doctor knows there is a genetic risk , he should n't feel obligated to tell the family .
Therefore , to retain peace for the family , a doctor should n't be obligated to tell the patients family without the patients permission .
Instead , the patient carrying a known genetic risk should tell his family .
With the development of medical technology , more and more illnesses are discovered to be related to certain genes .
People will know whether they carry a disease in their genes by doing the genetic test .
It will be wonderful if there is no problem .
However , not everyone will be so lucky as to not carry any disease genes .
Once someone finds that they carry the disease genes , it would be responsible to tell their relatives .
It may be awkward and embarrassing for a person to tell relatives that he or she is a carrier of a known genetic risk .
But they are all from one family and have the same forefather ; of course they have the same genes in some part .
Therefore , there is nothing to be shy about or afraid of .
If the person tells their relatives that he or she carries a disease gene , his or her relatives can go to a hospital to check whether they also have a disease gene .
Then the relatives can prepare themselves to prevent the disease from occurring .
Also they can prevent the disease from passing to their offspring .
If relatives carry that disease gene , they can share the experience and give some advice , they can also teach them how to communicate with others about the disease .
If the person gets married , they must tell their partner that they carry the disease gene .
They may be able have a healthy baby with the help of the doctors .
If they do hold back the genetic information , they may risk having an unhealthy baby or cause the death of the baby and possibly the end of their marriage .
This was a story I saw on TV .
After being married for some time , a couple 's parents encouraged them to go see a doctor about not being able to have a child .
After consultation , the husband told his parents that he would never be able to have a child with his wife because he had a gene that carried a disease .
Although the wife did not know the actual test result , she overheard her husband telling his parents and decided she wanted a divorce .
After the divorce was issued , the man showed his ex-wife the test and it was she , instead , who carried the diseased gene .
At that time , the woman knew how much her husband loved her but she ruined her happiness .
Tears showed nothing .
People can not avoid carrying the disease genes , which they were born with .
However , they can prevent the disease genes from being inhered by their children .
By telling their relatives that they may have a risk of carrying the disease gene , they can help their family members bond closely , and many risks and conflicts can be avoided .
Genetic testing has become a beneficial way to predict and protect each individual at risk for a disorder .
However , there rises a family-related ethical dilemma whether it is right to tell a carrier 's family once the test has been conducted and the results are known .
I am most inclined to believe that his or her relatives have the right to know the result .
The answer is , simply , that everyone , especially our family , has the right to know the truth .
Though it is said that genetic testing involves emotional and social risks due to the test results , and while the potential negative impacts of the risk still exist , the consequence will be significant if other members of his or her family do not know .
Then they would be unable to protect themselves and prepare emotionally .
Take Angelina Jolie for example , she is famous , but she still revealed the truth about her genetic testing on her breast cancer risk .
Everything will not seem as bad if you look at the brighter side with hope .
People may feel angry , depressed , or even guilty about their results .
In some cases , a person can suffer tension within their family because the result is related to the other 's risk somehow .
However , I believe it is just a usual reaction to this risk .
Though it can be possible to undergo specific discrimination in employment and social life , how can people face worse tragedy , such as sickness or death , if they can not overcome these things .
Life is hard but people can not blame life for being unfair .
It is because you are not strong enough to overcome the hard times .
Furthermore , living with a secret is not good , especially if the situations of other relatives become worse ; you would feel guilty and depressed .
Moreover , the truth can not be hidden forever , and the longer it is kept a secret , the more shocking and upset it will be when the truth is revealed .
As the result , it is in the best interests of the carriers and their relatives to reveal the results of genetic testing .
Last but not least , though genetic testing is a personal matter , telling the result to your family can improve understanding of and sympathy for each other , as well as promoting awareness of taking care of one 's health .
That plays an important role in the possibility that relatives can overcome discrimination of the society and anxiety about the risks .
In a nutshell , I believe that people have the obligation to tell their relatives about the genetic testing result for their health .
It can be very difficult for them but could be necessary for the carriers and their family .
In additional , you will need to be emotionally prepared to explain your genetic condition so that you can convey the correct information to your family and , if necessary , to guide them if they want similar testing .

Social media has been playing a vital role in our lives today .
It is almost imposible for us to keep way from it .
I started Facebook one years ago , after I arrived in Singapore .
And now I have over 500 friends on Facebook and bury myself with hundreds of seeds every day .
We know each other status ' , changes and such through the social media .
For example , if we change our contact numbers , we will not send a text to each of individual any more .
Instead , we will post a seed and tag our friends to inform them of these changes .
If you are not tagged , then you will not be informed .
In certain aspects , social media has made it more convenient .
It is even more convenient than talking on the phone since it is free .
We can discuss everything we like and we have more personal space. Our friends also have more access to know what we are doing and what we like .
Also , we get a chance to talk to people like popular stars and get to know their lives better .
In China , a lot of government organizations have open blogs to communicate with people , like firefighters , police stations , etc .
Socia media allows them to explain or inform people as to what is happening .
Actually , lots of rescuing jobs are done with the help of social media , for example , looking for people who are lost .
With more convenient and humane communications , the relationship between government and people are largely improved .
What 's more , we can learn various culture through social medias .
We can learn more news and about other cultures through social media .
From this scope , social media has shortened our distance .
However , we get fewer chances to talk face to face since social media is so convinient , advanced and interesting .
And even when we gather together more people find themselves having fewer topics to talk about than before and have to start digging in their social media again .
When we are far apart from each other , social media makes it as we are in front of each other ; sometimes , even when we are by each others ' side , we seem to be even further away .
This kind of feeling makes people 's relationship less stable , secure and reliable than before .
Besides , there are more people showing their pictures of yummy food or travel experiences .
To some extent , this makes our life seem more luxurious and blundering .
For myself , I long to visit places after I see those beautiful pictures taken by my friends .
Sometimes I can not sleep well because of my excitement .
Social media has made our life very fast and left us less time to think about our life .
Social media is becoming more important and it will require more thought to ensure it continues to serve us better .
Interpersonal skills , like any other skills , require practice .
Additionally , these skills require time to develop and adapt .
Social media is definitely burgeoning , but like all good things , it is better to have it in moderation .
Convenience and efficiency are two very important uses of social media .
While millions of users are connected at any one time , information can be readily available at their perusal .
This improves connectivity between users .
For an example , one is able to send notifications and other information we use to have to hard copy ; Over the web the process takes seconds .
The recipient receives the information almost immediately depending on the quality of the network .
It is very convenient because it is received in real time .
The communication is an improvement .
In the past , most communication was done by telegram , snail mail and poor-quality phone calls .
Any individual can now move forward with the new applications like Skype and Facetime .
A webcam can also be attached to a computer and not only will the user hear a voice but will have real interaction with expressions and gestures .
Communication would have taken a different turn without social media being so easily available .
However , it is a good practice to not use social media all the time .
Intimate interaction is lacking in social media , particularly the touch .
Having to meet and interact in person allows one to be closer to the recepient .
It involves a level of dynamic interaction which utlises the motor , thinking and verbal cortex of the mind to coordinate .
Unlike the use of social media , in which most of the interaction is done with thinking and typing .
As a result , one does not obtain the necessary skills required for a proper interpersonal relations .
It is also entirely incorrect to fault social media alone for the lack of interpersonal skills .
Howard Garner studied the effect of multiple intelligences amongst people and stated that interpersonal intelligence is skill on its own - some have it , and some do not .
Howard Garner mentioned that the different intelligences can be ranked and charted in accordance with the tests which were utilised .
Fundamentally , those who scored lower ranking for interpersonal skills are more likely to stumble when this skill is needed .
Though social media does n't have to be bad , it must be used accordingly - for work , family , friends .
You should also note the ways of using social media - informing , interacting , discussion and others .
The distance between the parties must also be looked at .
For people who are living very far from one another , intensive use social media is justified .
People who live within the same community should at least meet up , and not use social media as the primary source of communication with each other .
And at the same time , improving their interpersonal skills through dynamic practices between individuals and a real time presence .
The inclusion of an intimate presence and relative touch could also bring a better rapport between those interacting .
Recently , the rise of social media helped people have a closer connection with each other. It is more convenient , and cheaper , to have online contact when compared with face to face meetings .
In my opinion , social media websites such as Twitter and Facebook will not affect the chance for people to have face to face contact nor negatively affect interpersonal skills .
It may even increase face to face contact among people .
Social media networks have a lot of users and they help to link people from different parts of the world .
Before social networks , people may not have had the chance to meet others from different countries or ones they have never met before .
The number of people they knew would have been limited to the people they meet in daily life such as classmates or working partners .
Therefore , social networks bring more connections between people. They have a chance to chat with people they never knew , which helps to develop interpersonal skills as well .
Secondly , although social networking takes time for people to chat online , they may still decide on a time to meet face to face in their daily life .
In this case , social networking helps people to increase the frequency of their interactions .
For example , if social networking did not exist , business people would need to meet face to face which would time consuming. Even sometimes with business that is not so important , it would still takes a lot of time to travel which would be a waste .
However , social networking helps people to meet and chat more easily ; they can even use video chat and create group chat with multiple parties at the same time .
Even some companies now conduct online video interviews with their applicants as this saves time and cost .
The social network may also create some negative impacts for people .
The largest negative impact is that due to the online network , people start to use and rely on the internet every minute .
They take too much time using online social networks and do not have time in their daily life for people .
It not only affects their interpersonal skills but is also bad for people 's health if they spend too much time on the social media .
Secondly , social networking may leak certain personal information to the public , as the cyber environment is not perfect or safe. People may not protect their privacy online effectively and sometimes , some people may use other 's personal information to deceive .
In conclusion , although the unsafe online environment , spend too much time on internet may be the potential negative factors of using online social networks .
A more convenient environment of contact is provided and it improves the frequency of meeting others .
It also helps people develop their interpersonal skills through online chatting .
Overall , there are more benefits than costs .
The world is increasingly becoming flat due to social networking websites such as facebook and twitter .
We can even find out what a friend who lives thousands of miles away ate for lunch through social media .
From some points of view , social media really has a lot of advantages by letting us communicate with friends cheaper and more conveniently .
However , its disadvantages also can not be ignored when you consider it as a platform to show off and a stage for cyber crime .
Social network sites provide us many conveniences .
Without hanging out with friends or talking with friends by phone , we can know his of her latest news by scanning the webpage .
It can help us know more about him or her .
It can make people become closer also .
For example , if you find out one of your friend 's favourite singer is Justin Biber through facebook , you can give him or her Justin Biber 's new album or concert ticket as a birthday gift .
It will be really sweet and you two will surely become closer .
In addition , social network sites can help you keep in touch with friends living very far away .
I met some of my Canadian friends in Egypt .
Without Facebook , we may lose contact .
However , thanks to Facebook , I can still keep in touch with them. I know what they have been doing recently as if we were living close to each other .
The advantages of social network media are quite undeniable .
One research shows that people will unconsciously hide their real thoughts when they say or post something that will be exposed to the public .
This means that one can not know another 's real thoughts and personality by reading things that he or she put on a social media network .
This could result in him or her becoming quite upset when they communicate in real life .
Also , with all the " nice '' guys on the social network website , one may just communicate with friends on Facebook and neglect people surrounding him or her .
It is common to see two people sitting next to each looking at their cellphones and seldom talking with each other .
Research indicates that this kind of behaviour is not good for people 's psychological health .
The cyber communication is quite different to face to face communication and people who depends on cyber communication too much will not get used to the real life communication .
Also , a relationship that is cyber related may not work out in real life .
Since a cyber relationship does n't entail closeness , a person may possibly feel lonely since a typical need of human beings is to bond with others using all of our senses .
Since people feel the need to be better than others , social networking sites now become places for them to show off .
Many people feel satisfaction by posting their extravagances and travels on social network sites .
It is a mentally unhealthy and it may trigger people , especially teenagers , to become material .
Last but not the least , ith all kinds of personal information on one 's social network page , it is convenient for a criminal to make use of this information to commit a crime .
Above all , social networking sites is like a two sided knife and people can avoid the possible disadvantages , such as putting less personal information on his or her facebook page .
The modes of communication have been changing over the years , from letter writing to social networking .
This phenomenon is caused by rapidly changing technology , which has made communication faster than ever before .
Today , social media sites , such as Facebook and Twitter , are relatively common within the contemporary society and people can communicate with each other , online or offline , on these social networking platforms .
They can even make new friends over similar interests on these platforms , which will enable almost everyone in many parts of the world to connect closely .
However , critics may argue that with the existence of social media sites there is reduced physical human interactions among people as they will prefer sitting in front of a computer to going out and meeting new friends .
This essay will discuss both the benefits and down sides of using social media in the contemporary society .
Nowadays , social media is able to disseminate information faster than any other media .
50 % of people who hear breaking news has learned it from social media .
This is due to people spending more time on social network sites than time in reading newspapers .
Furthermore , with the current technology , smartphones are able to get access to social media sites and that makes it easier for consumers to use .
Hence , social media has benefited the masses by equipping them with a powerful tool to break down information , almost immediate to the people around them .
However , critics may argue that not all information or news given are reliable .
There might be false information or hoaxes spreading on social media .
For example in 2012 , there were false rumors of fires , shootouts , and caravans of gunmen in a Mexico City suburb. This had spread through Twitter and Facebook .
This caused panic among the people who flooded the local police department with numerous phone calls , resulting in schools closing temporarily .
The spreading of false information can be a potential psychological threat to everyone , given that social media can disseminate information in a relatively fast speed .
Nevertheless , there are cyber police who roam around these social networking platforms to prevent these hoaxes from spreading .
But , there will still be unreliable sources spreading false information on social media sites despite high security to monitor almost every social networking message .
Social media can help improve relationships and make new friends , provided that there is mutual trust and mutual understanding between both parties .
Many of the teenagers claimed that they are able to keep in touch with their friends through social media , regardless of their location .
In the past , people used to write letters to their friends and it would take a relatively long time to send the letter over .
Therefore , with the help of technology , people are able to catch up wth each other conveniently .
Furthermore , it will be easier to make new friends that have similar interests or hobbies .
However , in order for people to maintain their relationship as well as make new friends , it requires mutual trust and understanding between both parties .
It might not be accurate to judge the other party 's feelings over social media because they may cover up their true emotions while on social media .
In addition , there are also chances for people to miscommunicate with each other because they can not sense the tone of the other party over social media .
This can result in unnecessary conflicts between two parties because of miscommunication .
But , if there is trust and mutual understanding on social media , it will be ideal for people to improve relationship and make new friends .
In conclusion , social media in the contemporary society is able to help one improve relationships and make new friends , as well as disseminate information efficiently to the masses .
However , there are risks of false information and chances of miscommunication .
Nevertheless , the advantages of social media will benefit the masses if the negative aspects of it can be carefully taken care of .
All-in-all , social media is the product of rapid technological advancement and there is more to come in the future .
The advantages of social media sites are that they greatly ease long distance communication and interaction because of its accessibility and convenience .
With a globalized and interconnected world today , Twitter and Facebook are now the mainstream platforms for social interaction .
With just a touch away from any media or electronic device , one can easily interact and communicate with their friends without much hassle .
Thus , long distance relationships or friendships can be maintained and staying in touch with your circle of friends has been made much easier .
With the sharing of personal photos , posting statuses of one 's personal feelings or experiences and being able to reply to these posts allowed human interactions to be engaged and expanded with ease .
Introverts , or those who are shy , are now able to do so via social media platforms .
Thus , socialization can occur seamlessly and effectively with the utilization of such social media platforms. Meet-ups and appointments are no longer a barrier for humans to contact and communicate with one another , making human interaction possible at one 's own convenience .
The society will adapt to such phenomenon as physical interactions are transformed into cyber interactions .
With the frequent use and reliance of the social media and the internet , a society that socializes through cyberspace will be more advanced and adapted to the highly connected world .
This will help society to progress rapidly .
A disadvantage of using a social media platform to communicate is a lack of credibility .
The certainty of what is being shared or expressed could not be proven , as media limits physical interaction , except when a webcam is used to chat .
We can not be certain of the reliabilty or truth of some posts or information we see on the Internet .
We may , in fact , be communicating with a Facebook account of a cyber friend that is a hoax , but that we assume is a real account .
Photos and information retrieved from his or her profile page may be fabricated to suit a personal agenda .
Thus , the lack of face-to-face human contact through social media restricts actual interactions which then can be stimulated through the media .
Although emoticons can be used to show certain emotion , this differs from the real authentic emotion of your friends when you observed them through their body language and their facial expression .
The danger of such media socialization is the uncertainty of such communication due to the lack of physical interaction .
Furthermore , this lack of physical interaction has affected human inter-personal behaviour since communication is made through social media instead of meet-ups .
This lowers the experience people have of using their human ability to interact with one another which can adversely shape one 's behavior .
The lack of exposure to real-life interaction with humans will hinder the confidence and skills needed for one to interact seamlessly and effectively with others .
Therefore , for an effective and efficient society to exist , there is a need for a balance of both social media interaction and face-to-face human interaction .
Nowadays , people can even use their phones to read news , and everyone can be the first to witness what is happening in the world .
People use Twitter to follow the artiste or celebrity they love ; and Facebook to see their friends ' recent activity .
Nevertheless , they still can use their phones to make calls and send messages to stay in contact .
Not only does the phone do the jobs for them , but also devices like personal computers , laptops , tablets , and many other devices which are able to connect to internet .
It is obvious to see that the internet saves people 's time and also connects people globally .
Several arguments have been made regarding the idea that social media actually has some inevitable disadvantages to people .
People can only use electrical devices to access the internet .
Whenever they need to use social media , they have to use a phone or the internet .
Generally people need their eyes to look at the display screen of their phone or computer and fingers to manipulate the corresponding device .
As a result , they wo n't use their eyes to contact or hands to express their feeling to people nearby them , which means they have lost the tools they need for face-to-face contact communicating .
This can easily be seen in restaurants or cafes nowadays .
A family of four having dinner in a restaurant without any chatting , because they are holding and looking at their display screen with one hand when the other hand is holding a fork .
A group of friends is having high tea in a caf without chatting as well , because they do not know how to talk and press buttons on their display screen .
Children nowadays know nothing of neighborhood games and who is living beside them ; all they know is clicking on icons on a screen .
These are some concrete examples of how social media reduce face-to-face human contact .
When people get used to using social media to contact other people , what will happen is that their interpersonal communication skills will degrade and eventually be lost .
Firstly , they have lost the courage to meet strangers , let alone the courage to talk .
Also , they will not have enough experience in communicating with people in person and will not be adept at conversation skills .
As a result , social media helps them do the jobs but indirectly affects their interpersonal skills .
Social media has some other advantages beside their general benefits to human life .
First of all , people save money by using the internet to contact people and reading news .
A father may be able to make a call to his daughter who is in other country via socia media software instead of making international calls which cost a lot to a normal salary family .
He can even talk to his daughter face-to-face using video call via internet .
Secondly , people makes friends all over the world. Using social media we people can update friends of recent activity quite easily .
A guy who is going travel for months can easily tell all of his friends about his activity .
When one of his friends who is not aware of this has failed to contact him via telephone calls , he maybe able to get his whereabouts using social media .
These are the advantages that social media works most of the time .
In conclusion , social media benefits people in several ways but at the same time harms people .
People should avoid the misuse of social media and use it in the proper way .
With the aids of social media , people have bonds globally , information flows rapidly , and human lives happily .
All of us are living in the technology realm of society .
Have you ever wondered why we use these tools to connect ourselves with other people ?
It started with the invention of technology which has evolved tremendously over the past few decades .
In the past , we traveled by ship and now we can travel by airplane .
In the past , it took a few days to receive a letter sent by mail and now , we can send messages to our friends by Email ( electronic message ) using a cellphone .
From the example that I have mentioned earlier we can see that distance between us and our loved one are getting further apart .
Technology , such as airplanes , enable us to travel overseas to continue our studies or pursue careers .
Thus , this makes Twitter and Facebook necessary mediums .
Nevertheless , everything in life has positive and negative effects .
This is applicable to social media sites .
The next two paragraphs will be discussing the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our society .
With the help of social media tools , we can stay in contact and keep ourselves up to date with our family and friends even though we are away from them .
Social media sites such as Facebook have allowed us to share our pictures or even chat online with our parents while we are overseas .
This approach helps the parents to communicate with their children and know what kind of activities their children have when they are overseas .
Social media is beneficial as it connects you and your loved ones even though you are separated by distance .
Not only can social media replace the joy you have when you are with your family , it can also reduce the sadness of being separated from them .
As I mentioned in the beginning , there is also disadvantages to social media tools .
One of them is that it reduces the level of concentration especially among youngsters .
This is because it is part of everyone 's habit to check their facebook 's page as their friends will post something new every second .
Thus , you can see that some students will browse facebook while attending lectures .
This means the students are not concentrating when they are supposed to .
As a result , it could affect their lives and studies .
This could lead to stress as these students are not able to cope with their studies because they are distracted .
In my opinion , social media users are obligated to protect themselves by not allowing their virtual existence to supercede their actual one .
Social media has its advantages and disadvantages , of course , but for its users , priority must be placed on a healthy balance between online and offline worlds .
Today , social media is an unavoidable fact and , for many , a regular facet of their everyday life .
In our current " global village '' world , social media platforms can both significantly enhance and encumber our lives -- often simultaneously .
With today 's amazing tech , relationships can form and bloom online , as users come together emotionally but not ( and sometimes never ) physically .
However , it is also bringing some social changes whereby such virtual worlds are overtaking the real-life world , resulting in some negative impacts in an individual 's daily life and therefore becoming a large problem to society as a whole .
As people spend more and more time on such social media sites , the importance of face-to-face human contacts has decreased .
As people feel more confident online , where they do not have to face people in real-life on the spot , they feel more comfortable and thus prefer communicating online .
This results in a lack of interpersonal skills in individuals , especially young students , as they always have the option to turn their back to the real-life and go online .
This becomes a huge problem when they have no choice but to face things in real life .
As they are so used to having an online avatar , they may lose their self-identity in real life and may not realize how to interact people in real-life circumstances .
Another problem with social media is that the benefits from investing such enormous time and energy is not reflected as something positive to the users .
The reason why it is so addictive is , that the more people get into the social media , the more they seek attention from their friends .
However , such sparks of sudden attention are extremely short-termed and gone easily , thus they do not add any value or meaning to the user 's life .
Also , according to research , it has been proven that the users feel more sad after using Facebook and this is because users unknowingly compare their lives with other people 's lives .
But seriously , most people only post the happiest moments of their lives .
Social media definitely have some other strong benefits that make users stay , like the links among people .
Indeed , I use Facebook because I want to keep in contact with friends .
However , the friendship in such a virtual world is superficial and not relevant to real life .
Also , as numerous profit-driven companies realize the amount of human traffic on such social media sites , they will attract customers by uploading many advertisements .
Furthermore this also possibly triggers the privacy issues , as Facebook allows some profit-driven companies to have access to information belonging to users .
As this happens , users are more and more prone to frauds .
Social media sites are at their peaks. However , I believe that when people realize that these sites are not making them better people in real-life , they will not be indulged as much as they are now .
The users will soon realize that they do not need social media sites to keep in contact with the their friends because , if they really need somebody they will reach their friends no matter what .
We think we are all connected through all sorts of social media , but do we really get connected or falling apart ?
Social media sites like Facebook and Twitter were created with the intention of connecting people from around the world .
The idea seems great , and nowadays most people - even the older generation - will use at least one social media platform like Facebook .
The parents are now the " friends '' with their kids , and they can now " follow '' their kids more closely and in real time .
People frequently post their random thoughts or daily activities via Twitter and post photos on Facebook in order to be connected with their so-called friends .
However , as we tend to spend too much time on this and have significantly reduced face-to-face human contact , our interpersonal skills are affected .
First and foremost , I would like to share the advantages of using social media in my daily life .
As a student , I tend to meet lots of people from different backgrounds at different settings .
We may meet only once , but we exchange our contact numbers and Facebook account information in order to keep in touch .
Unlike keeping contact numbers that we may never call , a social medium like Facebook is a great way for friends from different fields or different parts of the world to stay connected .
With a few clicks , we can read a friend 's profile and his or her updates .
On the other hand , we could update our profile by posting on the wall and our friends could read the newsfeed .
This allows friends that may not have the time to meet in person to still connect in a way .
Not only that , it is possible to make new friends through such online platforms .
Hence , our social circle is indeed expanding .
Nonetheless , what seems to connect us can also cause us to drift apart .
The obvious disadvantage of using social media is the time reduction of face-to-face contact .
This subsequently leads to the poor interpersonal skills that inhibit the growth of our real social circle .
For example , we send a birthday wish when Facebook prompts us " Today is someone 's birthday '' .
In fact , we may have forgotten our friend 's birthday if facebook had n't listed our friend 's birthdays on our calendar for us .
We used to send cards during festive season like Chinese New Year , and felt good writing them and surprisingly received one with a stamp on it .
Those days are gone , nowadays often replaced by online interactions and mass emailing which , for many , are much less meaningful .
As times passes , the list of one 's " friends '' grows and grows , but the meaning of the friendships become less and less significant .
What it all boils down to is the simple fact that it 's a double-edged sword .
All social media users have to find that balance between their illusory online existence and their genuine , real world life .
There 's nothing wrong with making the best of the online social experience , but the effects of social media can be pernicious and it 's vital to keep it in perspective , especially when it bleeds over into reality .
Ultimately , the best way to enhance interpersonal skills is through face-to-face meetings. Social media sites are merely tools to supplement these relationships .
Social media sites are now commonly used .
Perhaps as much as 80 % of the world 's population uses social media sites .
These sites connect people around the world .
Social media sites help people connect , share and interact but the sites also include advertising .
However , there are also some disadvantages occurring , due to social media which are concerning society .
Therefore , this article is written to explain the pros and cons of using social media in our daily life .
First , with the function of social media sites that connect people , people are able to interact and communicate with friends and families , or even strangers without any time or place constraints .
Through the social media sites , we can chat with our friends who stay in Europe and New Zealand .
There are over thousand miles between Singapore and these two countries .
However , we are able to chat with our friends without traveling to these other countries .
It saves a lot of money and time , and allows us to maintain relationships although we live in different parts of the world .
Besides that , companies can also use social media sites , such as Facebook chat or Skype , to conveniently collaborate with business partners from around the world .
Substantial money is saved , and there is no need travel from one point to another .
The money saved can be utilized in other sectors , which benefits companies and increases profit .
All stories , however , have at least two sides .
Some experts believe that heavy social media usage significantly limits effective face-to-face communication and weakens the skills associated with it .
Since the beginning of civilization , human interaction has been characterized by face-to-face communication .
When facial cues are removed from the human conversation dynamic , instances of miscommunication multiply and misunderstandings skyrocket .
It 's for this reason that facial expressions -- and what they communicate -- are a key component of social development and societal functionality .
In addition , the point of view in society is that social media will affect writing skills .
Based on the statistical data , the more time spent on social media sites , the more writing skills will be reduced .
I believe most of us have the experience of suddenly forgetting how to write a word that we should know .
Auto correction software is so effective when using electronic device that we do not realize the importance of writing .
Writing is an essential skill of person by letting them express their own feelings and opinions .
'Privacy ' , this is a popular word in these past few decades .
Humans have their own rights and privacy .
I believe that most of us agree with these terms .
However , there is news about the social media sites leaking users information to companies with cash reimbursement .
Everything we type in the social media sites is recorded in the server and then transfered to the companies for spying and advertising .
Although it looks as though there are no laws and it is your own space to speak and do whatever you want , you are actually wrong .
You are controlled by the government laws while also being spied on by them .
In conclusion , there are two sides to the story .
It is our responsibility to identify the advantages and disadvantages of social media sites .
To utilize the technology well , we should do our effort to not only balance the pros and cons , but also strengthen the pros and eliminate the cons .
Thus , the new technology will be able to bring a prosperous future for us and our next generation .
With the wide spread of advanced technology , social media sites are becoming more and more popular .
Getting connected on social media such as Facebook and twitter has become a main trend and used daily .
With this situation , both advantages and disadvantages of using social media apply to our daily life .
On one side , it is obvious that many advantages have been brought to our lives .
Social media provide people with the opportunity to contact each other anytime and any place .
Whether we are at home or at school , at work or on a holiday , we are able to communicate and interact with our friends .
Even when people are thousands of miles apart , social media make it possible to interact by writing comments .
When our phones are down , we can use social media to maintain contact with our friends .
Some people who try to talk in public can also actively take part in group chatting via social media .
Besides , we can make more friends by such interactions when our friends also bring their friends in .
Therefore , the popularity of social media sites have made it more convenient for people to update friends ' status and maintain contact with friends more frequently .
On the other hand , we need to rethink how social media influences us .
There are still many disadvantages to using social media .
First , interpersonal skills may be affacted by the reduction in face-to-face human contact .
Social media bring convenience to people 's lives as people are more and more willing to use them for chatting instead of talking face-to-face , which requires a time and place commitment .
People who are not good at public chatting may be more reluctant to talk to people in person , so their interpersonal skills will never improve .
Secondly , people 's overuse may , to some degree , exacerbate social alienation , and this kind of alienation causes some social media users to suffer from the dependence on virtual social networking .
More and more networking is taking place on the Internet rather than in real life .
There is a potential danger for teenagers who are growing socially to get hurt .
Thirdly , frequent updates of luxury living standards , as well as other situations where people may feel like showing off , makes people 's daily lives seem more and more grandiloquent , which is not an accurate social growing trend .
Lastly , it is easy for people to waste a lot of time using social media .
Again , there is a trend of people suffering from social media addition , which may greatly influence their study and work .
Even though both advantages and disadvantages of using social media can be seen , we can not deny the huge benefits that have been brought to us. The trend of using social media may still last for a long time .
Therefore , every time we use social media , we should take both sides into consideration , and try to avoid being affected by the disadvantages .
Only by absorbing the essence and discarding the dregs can we make better use of social media .
In this sophisticated era , experts keep producing inventions that are meant to make life easier .
Geographical and transportation borders are not a problem anymore because communication and information technologies are being enhanced continuously .
The telephone may be perceived as the biggest innovation ever created when Graham Bell first introduced it .
However , since the Internet was known , the telephone started to give way to social media sites .
Users enjoy many advantages .
Let 's examine Facebook and Twitter , two famous social media sites .
Facebook users can connect with their old acquaintances .
Neither telephone nor mail are as useful because these can change. Facebook has the advantage of using a name and photo to identify a contact .
Facebook combines a message and chatting service with a person 's profile , media of sharing , and other entertainment add-ons .
social games , which allow users to communicate with remote people , and to update information and express themselves at the same time .
Twitter , which has a more simplified function compared to Facebook , has more benefits if it is used for information sharing .
Twitter only allows users to give updates that are limited to short sentences in order to spread messages fast , and only highlighted messages are delivered .
For Facebook , a comprehensive way of sharing is offered as multiple photos and videos can be uploaded , long notes can be published , and even documents and data can be shared .
These advantages also come in handy as most of these social media sites are accessible through mobile applications on our smartphones .
Social media sites offer cutting-edge ease and convenience , on the one hand , but they also harbor some potentially harmful -- and often hidden -- side effects in the process .
Recent data indicates that social media addicts are experiencing fewer and fewer real world interactions and the percentage of face-to-face interfacing continues to decline .
As a consequence , interpersonal skills suffer a negative impact .
People have time to prepare responses when typing back and forth , in contrast to face-to-face interactions , where the language does n't have time to linger and responses are immediate and unrehearsed .
It 's a skill that demands honing and social media often wo n't facilitate that function .
There are situations where families are having dinner together in a restaurant but everybody is busy with his or her own gadget , posting pictures on Facebook , updating statuses on Twitter , or even chatting with friends .
These social media serve a purpose to connect people in spite of their geographical locations , but it does n't mean that people around you should be neglected as a trade-off .
This is related to the interpersonal skills that were mentioned before. They can decrease in quality if we are used to interacting with gadgets instead of human beings .
Another disadvantage that affects other people is that by only showing select parts of our lives , we build a " false image '' for the public .
We tend to only share our happy moments on social media .
Because of this , other people start to think that our lives are full of happiness with no problems at all .
Other people are influenced by us and tend to do the same .
As a result , people think of themselves as lowly which may lead to depression and mental disorders .
It also reduces our sympathy .
This is a serious social problem and affects a lot of people .
As explained above , modern and sophisticated technology does n't always have advantages .
There are a lot of disadvantages that people may not realize .
It is up to people 's discretion and comprehension to decide which side they want to take .
So , we should never forget to consider and calculate the benefit and loss of every decision that we make .
Nowadays , the advancement of technologies greatly improves the life of many people .
In most of the countries , there is an emergence of social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter .
Many people think that the social media sites have benefits of communication between people while some others argue that there are several negative impacts for society .
One of the advantages which is carried by social media sites is that they can connect us more closely than before .
In the past decades , when the social media sites were not yet fully developed , people connected with others who live far away by using a phone or letter .
However , calling a person or writing a letter require some cost , and sending a letter to a person who live far away takes much time .
The appearance of social media sites has solved those problems .
People connecting through the social media sites can spend no money on the communication , and also take only one or a few seconds for the message to reach .
Therefore , social media sites save money and time , and also provide convenience for many people .
Moreover , this also provides an alternative way for people to contact someone they have not seen for a very long time , such as friends in primary and secondary school .
When we graduate from a school , we probably lose contact with some of our friends .
Some of them may have changed their phone numbers and addresses , and we are not able to contact them through a phone or a letter .
If phone numbers and addresses are the only way to contact them , we would probably not able to find them .
Facebook and Twitter can serve as an alternative route to make connections between us and our old friends .
Hence , the social media sites serve as a platform for the connection .
Everything that comes with benefits , also has it 's disadvantages .
On the other hand , social media sites also bring some negative impacts for people and society .
The advancement of those social media sites makes people rely on them so much that some people prefer using those sites to contact each other rather than talking to each other face to face .
Many people argue that this is the most serious problem caused by social media sites .
The usage of social media sites indirectly causes a reduction in face-to-face human communication in real life , which will in turn cause the loss of interpersonal skills for many people .
As we all know , interpersonal skills are essential for us to communicate with each other and to present our views and ideas .
The loss of interpersonal skills results in the inability of people to express their ideas .
As a result , they will gradually lose their ability to compete with each other in society .
In conclusion , social media sites cause both positive and negative consequences for people and society .
As a part of this modern society , we should learn to distinguish between the good and bad impacts brought on by the advancement of technology , and also learn to avoid the cons and maximize the pros of these sites .
With the advancement of technology in recent years , the need to keep in touch with people and up on the latest news has become a priority .
Some of the famous examples would be social media sites like Twitter and Facebook .
With an increasing amount of more than a billion users from all over the world , social media sites have demonstrated its success playing an important part of our life .
However , there are arguments that social media brings a reduction in face-to-face human contact , which in turn affects interpersonal skills .
Let 's examine the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily life and society .
First and foremost , all social media sites are free .
All users need to start their foray into social media with a Facebook or Twitter account is an Internet connection and an e-mail account .
Secondly , it helps people keep in touch with one another .
Finding old friends through Facebook , for example , is easier than finding people in person .
Social media help reduce geographical distance and bring people closer .
Thirdly , social media sites keep us up-to-date on the latest news and updates from almost everywhere in the world , all just a click away .
Last of all , social media sites also link people together by allowing us to create our own groups , pages , or sites to share our hobbies , interests , and studies in particular subjects .
Hence , it is undeniable that these sites play an important role in our global inter-connected world .
However , social media sites also have a darker side , a negative impact on humans .
Undeniably , the more time we spend busy socializing and interacting virtually , the more addicted we become .
We spend the majority of our time on sites like Facebook and Twitter , thereby affecting our daily work productivity and performance .
In the corporate world , employers often block social media network sites to prevent employees from spending office time on personal leisure rather than concentrating on work .
Using text-message language as an informal way of communicating on social media networks can also cause long term negative impact .
The more time we spend on these sites , the less time we spend on face-to-face interaction .
Hence it lessens valuable interaction between humans and increases time we spend on the computer or mobile phone .
In addition , there are also false reports and fake IDs used on social media sites where people use fake IDs to insult or harass someone , like the case of Heather Chua that occurred recently on Facebook .
These malicious comments often go viral and create a strong negative effect on the user in real life. This might lead the to be unwilling to interact with others in real life .
In conclusion , everything has its two-sided affect and the affect depends on how we exploit it .
With current booming technology , it is unavoidable that people become more technology-savvy and they want to spend more time interacting with each other through social media sites. However , this does not mean that we should neglect face-to-face human interaction as it plays even a more important role in our life .
As more and more social websites such as Twitter , Facebook and Weibo which have become ubiquitous , seamless and imperative in our life , people may worry about the young generation having problems in face-to-face communication skills .
However , I believe that the benefits created by these online chat rooms tremendously outweigh their disadvantages .
Social media enables us to explore the world far far away efficiently and inexpensively , no long trips with costly airline tickets .
The convenience is beyond description .
With a small smart phone or a computer at school , at work , or at home , we can easily make friends worldwide with a 'click ' and get to know about their lives by having conversations , reading their blogs , or looking at their photos .
Compared to face-to-face interaction , online conversation is easier for strangers to get to know each other .
Since some of the information has already been revealed on the home page , it is also easier to find some common topics .
Moreover , people usually like to share their real feelings online .
This has been indicated in a report by Boston University : in 2012 , 80 % of information posted online is true , while a person may only be truthful 30 % of the time in real life .
This shows that a Facebook friend may know more about you than your close friend who does not have a Facebook account .
That is because we are acting as who we are in reality , while we have no reason to do that in the online virtual world .
Sometimes the genuine sharing of information may be inappropriate or even harmful , such as the prevalent use of vulgarity and harsh comments : we can minimize this through strict regulation of content online .
Another advantage of social media is it 's ability to aid in the spread of democracy .
People around the world can easily share their thoughts about their governments .
That eliminates the disadvantage of having incomplete infomation for some remote , rural , regions where the people are less aware of what actually is happening around them .
One example of this is the 2012 riots happened in Egypt and Zambia .
The idea of promoting democracy is passed from Egyptians to people in Zambia quickly through the use of social media .
However , the government controls most of the media .
The social media may be tools of the government campaign , used to manipulate the public 's thoughts .
For example , in the 2012 general election is Singapore , Dr Tan Chee Keong used Facebook to spread his campaign videos to the public .
In spite of this , social media is still a much more fair and transparent online platform for the public to share ideas , in comparison with traditional media .
Intensive use of social media does reduce the time people spend in face-to-face communication .
It is commonly seen in a food court or restaurant that a group of people sitting together around a table with cell phones in their hands .
They are busy with their virtual friends , and some of them neglect the feelings of their real-life friends .
In this case , I have to say that " to err is human . ''
What we can do is educate the public about the importance of their friends and teach them to manage their time well .
In conclusion , the use of social media has more advantages than disadvantages to our daily lives .
We need to manage our time spent online and our words used online .
With better regulations the virtual world could be a better place .
It is undeniable the role social media sites play in connecting people around the world .
Thanks to social media , communication all over the world is possible and can be done with ease .
Despite the distance many advantages such as knowledge sharing and trades can be done through social media .
Nevertheless , with those advantages , some disadvantages which affects interpersonal skills may appear such as reduction in face-to-face human contact , privacy issues , and scams done through social media .
Twitter , Facebook and Skype are examples of social media sites that enable us to keep in touch with our friends or family regardless of their physical location .
Through those sites , we are able to talk to them , know what their activities are , who their friends are , etc. From the a glance , it seems these sites help us have better relationships with our relatives despite the distance .
The sharing of information can be done faster through social media as well. This is why nowadays many news publishers make their own social media accounts. For example , Channel News Asia has a twitter account and updates its followers with news headlines .
That shows how actually news and information can be shared easily through social media. That shows how news and information can be shared easily through social media .
Furthermore , since many teenagers and young adults are fans of social media , these information can reach them easily without them need to watch or listen to the news reports. Furthermore , since many teenagers and young adults are fans of social media , this information can reach them easily without their needing to watch or listen to news reports .
Due to the popularity of social media , many people start to do their business via these sites. Due to the popularity of social media , many people do business via these sites .
More and more advertisements can be found on Facebook , whether it is our friends who sell their products or professional brands selling their products online , we can get to buy and contact the sellers through those sites , which can be considered as an advantage for us , the buyers. More and more advertisements can be found on Facebook. Whether it is our friends selling their products or professional brands selling theirs , online purchasing is an advantage to us , the buyers .
However , is it the same when we keep in touch with someone virtually compared to when we meet them personally ? However , is the virtual buying experience comparable to the personal interaction at a store ?
I do think there is a difference and I believe many of us will agree .
When we write or communicate virtually , we can hide our feelings and not be our real selves since we do not want the other party to judge us .
Other than that , the message of one party ca n't be delivered properly to the other since communication is done through written language , and thus the 'tone ' of the message sent and when it is received may be different .
Many people are very brave in telling people about their opinions online , but in real life , some of them can be very shy and not outspoken at all .
This will lead to bad inter-personal skills as well as having trust issues .
Nowadays , we ca n't always trust people we meet through social media , as we will never know if they are really who they say .
Some people create false identities on social media sites in order to meet more people and even to scam others .
In addition , privacy issues have become more popular recently as some people do not realize that they are sharing information they never intended to .
Therefore , while social media sites undoubtedly have benefits , we should consider the drawbacks and use the sites wisely so that we can avoid the disadvantages while enjoying the benefits .
It is common in today 's society to see nearly everyone on a public transit ride watching their phone or wearing earphones .
Many developed and developing countries have the same picture .
Some say that it 's a necessary step for human revolution .
Social media sites like Twitter and Facebook are popular in order for people to connect to others , even those from different countries .
It also brings many negative effects , such as loss of face-to-face communicating skills , which is important in their place of work .
This essay will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily life .
One of the significant advantages of using a popular social media site is that people can reach each other easily , even after a long period of time .
In this fast-paced and competitive world , people may not be able to keep in touch with others .
With the help of social media sites , people are able to upload new discoveries , funny scenes , and can be updated regarding new information about their friends .
Personally , I am studying overseas , and my busy study life keeps me away from contacting my old friend .
Using a common social media site with my friends helps me know what their statuses are nowadays .
I am easily able find a common topic when I contact them .
In Singapore , many Malaysian 's cross the sea to work here .
Many of them are busy with work and are separated from their children .
One of the Manager 's in my workplace is in the same situation .
After my Manager taught her mother how to use Facebook , she uploaded videos of her grandchild .
That way , my manager would not miss the important moments of her daughter 's growth .
Social media sites are also a very useful tool for people to start a new friendship or relationship .
People with the same preferences , can get connected or become closer .
It is easier for a person to approach the other after knowing the information .
Students can exchange their experiences in study even if they are in different countries .
People are able to share their culture and photos online , therefore spreading the joy they feel for their own culture .
I believe that social media sites are a useful tool to help people get to know each other better .
However , social media sites are a double-sided sword , it can also cause a negative effect on our daily life .
One of the disadvantage that many people are concerned with is that people lose interest in face-to-face communication .
Many people lose confidence when speaking to each other .
Although not everyone is good at public relationship , even without the existence of the social media sites , we can not deny that it does affect some people in their ability of interpersonal skills .
In conclusion , the shadow always exists when there is light .
We should take advantage of the creatures we create and try to avoid the negative effects .
Social media sites are supposed be a very useful and convenient tool to use , and bring people get closer in this globalized world .
The use of social media has largely influenced our ways in communicating with one another .
Online friends have became real life friends and real life friends communicate with one another online .
Social media has profoundly changed our ways of exchanging information and interpersonal relationships .
There are several advantages and disadvantages in this change .
Social media is reshaping the ways of communication .
Where in real life , we communicate with one another as equal participants .
We share ideas , stories , and forge friendships based on mutual respect .
However , communication on social media is largely based on " broadcasting and listening . ''
When we use Facebook and post pictures and statuses , we are broadcasting .
We are actively " presenting '' facades of our lives in front of others .
We tend to post pictures with the best looks and statuses that are funny .
We broadcast these facades of ourselves to others .
The images we choose to present are tentatively considered .
The audience is not some specific person , but everyone we might know , or even the entire world .
There is an element of seeking out for attention rather than expressing one 's true opinion on social networks .
On the other hand , the viewers are not the listeners .
They are just scrolling down pages of pictures and statuses to see one of them they might think is funny .
It is not the broadcasters they care about , but the content .
This type of communication does not help in forging interpersonal relationships .
In real life , establishing friendship requires the all-around understanding of , and caring for , one another .
The latter requires face-to-face interaction where we can show our emotions .
One can not truly understand a person by only stalking his/her Facebook page where he/she carefully chooses what to present .
One can not truly show their emotions by texting some " = ) '' signs .
The broadcasting and viewing model is not good for forging relationships .
However , it is good for sharing information .
On social media , everyone is a broadcaster and a viewer .
With my social network account , I seldom read newspapers or go to news websites anymore ; because I can easily read them from the status of my friends. I seldom read newspapers or go to new websites anymore , because I can get the information I need through my friends on my social network account .
If I am interested in politics , I can just follow some politics newspapers or public figures. If I am interested in politics , I can just follow some politicians , newspapers , or public figures .
I get news for sales , clothes and cosmetics from my friends. I get news about sales , clothes , and cosmetics from my friends .
If some of my friends have horrible taste on clothes and he/she posts them often , I can simply block him/her off. If some of my friends with horrible taste in clothes post pictures of their outfits often , I simply block them .
Information got circulated. The information will get around to everyone .
The most popular information gets circulated the most , so I seldom miss it .
Social networks play a role in providing and filtering information .
This saves a lot of time for me , compared to reading newspapers and watching TV .
Personally , I feel more at ease on social media .
From the above two points of view , I think social media could forge more interest-based friendships .
With the help of social media , I become real life friends with people from online forums whom I share the same interests with .
I also discovered that some of my friends ' interest , are my comon interests , so that talking to one another is much more about life , study , friends , etc .
The communication does not focus on how we feel , or what we say to each other , but whatever is interesting , or the content .
In this case , interpersonal skill is not as important because our goal is not to impress somebody , but to get the information that we are both interested in .
In conclusion , I think social media has reshaped interpersonal relationships from a more human-based friendship that requires sharing and caring between friends , to a more information-based friendship that requires a mutual interest .
There are advantages and disadvantages to social media ; whether social media is inherently good or bad , we are not yet sure .
It is just different .
The advantages and disadvantages of using social media in daily life
People that live in the modern world really can not live without social media sites like Twitter and Facebook .
Almost all students and young adults possess Facebook or Twitter accounts .
It 's true that social media enables people be to connect with one another conveniently .
However , it does seem that sharing some parts of their lives on social media ( such as videos and photos ) becomes necessary .
A very interesting and ironic phenomenon was discovered in which a group of friends would meet and sit around a table , but none of them were actually chatting each other .
Instead , they were all more interested in posting pictures of this " cheerful '' meeting to social media sites .
Therefore , there is a need to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of social media .
Social media enables people from different parts of the world to communicate with one another .
People used to write letters and send post cards to keep in touch with people who were n't nearby .
It could take a few days or weeks for those messages to arrive .
Nowadays , all people need to do is type on a computer ,
and people on the other side of the world will only need a second to receive the message .
Distance and time are no longer the problem , which is convenient , especially when instant chat is needed .
However , when people become more and more addicted to this convenience and fail to communicate with people who are close to them , their face-to-face interpersonal skills are lost .
Social media provides people a way of talking and chatting , which can never be considered as a way of communication .
When people chat on media sites , there is no eye connection , no emotion delivery , and even the expressions are typed in by using some combinations of punctuations .
For more convenience , sentences are shortened to simply three or four words such as lol ( which means laugh intensively ) and " asap '' ( which means as soon as possible ) .
Indeed , people go to great lengths to make their words as short as they can .
Meanwhile , when they are communicating with people face to face , expressing themselves appropriately become really a big problem .
Social media also provides huge amounts of information about people and things that they are interested in .
For example , on Twitter , it is exciting to follow people that you adore like famous movie and series stars or business men and entrepreneurs .
It makes people feel extremely close to the lives and work of those they admire .
Updated news can be easily obtained when you refresh your social media sites on your smartphones and laptops .
However , after one has registered in those social media sites , all the information you have filled in may be used against you in the future .
Furthermore , not everyone on social media is honest .
The profile picture may not be the actual person you are speaking to .
The reason might be that he or she just wants to " decorate '' his or her face .
But there is a possibility that the person on the other side is deceiving you , in order to obtain information to be used against you .
No pledge of authenticity guarantees people 's information shared on social media sites .
Summing up , social media has both advantages and disadvantages in people 's daily life .
It shortens the distance between people , making instant communication possible .
And sharing information becomes more convenient .
On the contrary , social media makes people lose their ability to communicate effectively in their real lives and makes people risk exposing their privacy to those whose identity can not be verified on the social media sites .
How does social media help change our lives ?
As technology continues to develop , social media takes on a more significant role in people 's lives all over the world .
Everybody in the world continues to use it every day to express their feelings , ideas and other thoughts , which helps friends follow their lives more effectively .
However , it also raises concerns about whether it is more beneficial or detrimental , overall .
Although it helps us to connect with our friends wherever we are , it also reduces the likelihood that we will talk to our friends face to face which may affect our interpersonal skills .
Therefore , whether there are more advantages or disadvantages becomes a tough question for everyone .
Many people say they support social media since it really helps them to have a better view about how their friends are doing in other parts of the world .
This is especially true for people who are overseas .
To them , social media is the only resource they can utilize to know everything happening in their home country and a way they can use to show their lives to their lovers as well .
What 's more , these days social media plays an important role in spreading information .
Nowadays , it is a huge convenience that people can put their rental information on their facebook account and wait for the response from others in all different parts of the world .
It is quite significant , especially for young teenagers , since they would prefer to go to these sites for what 's happening in the world , rather than read the newspaper every day .
However , there are many people who are against this technology .
They worry a lot about the bad effect on the teenagers who are still developing themselves. They are concerned about the detrimental effects this technology might have on developing minds .
They pointed out that social media actually reduces the opportunities to talk to the people around us face to face .
The more time we spend caring about facebook , the less time we have to spend with our friends in person .
Nowadays , it can be quite common to see bored people preferring looking at their phones and reading posts on facebook while at a party .
This makes people worry , because if teenagers continue using social media that frequently , they may decrease their abilities to talk to people in person .
They may find it difficult to find any common ground topics to discuss with other people .
Personally , I strongly agree that social media has more disadvantages than advantages .
Although it is really useful when we use it to let other people know how our life is going , it wastes a lot of time as well .
Thinking of it another way , if we put the time we spend wandering around on those sites into other pursuits , we could have already finished reading book or have done other , more meaningful things .
We should keep in mind that there are still other ways for us to keep in contact with our family or friends .
It will be bad if we do n't know how to use these sites wisely regardless of whether they are really good or not .
As a result , it is important that people realize that they need to be cautious about the time spent on social media .
As I stated above , I strongly believe that if we can use social media wisely , we will all live a better life .
The advantages and disadvantages of social media
Today , as the technology is becoming increasingly advanced , more and more social media sites are showing up in our daily life .
You can see people on Facebook and Twitter using their smart phones or iPad on buses or on trains .
Some may say that the appearance for these modern media will reduce the chance for people to communicate face-to-face .
This essay will illustrate the pros and cons of using social media in modern society .
First of all , social media can make it more convenient for people to make friends and to contact each other .
Years ago , when these modern products were not popular , the way for people to communicate or to contact people far away were restricted to making phone calls , sending emails or writing letters .
Some of these forms of communication take a long time and are not efficient enough for people to get their response quickly .
However , social media solves these problems .
People can contact their friends on the internet and get their replies very fast .
The communication is also not limited to words .
People can express themselves through pictures or emotions .
People can also get to know their friends ' states and moods by looking at their posts online .
Moreover , people can be aware of what is going on in social situation , see the comments online and share their opinions on these websites .
These social media sites make people 's lives much more colorful and provide a lot of fun .
However , social media may do some harm to people 's lives .
It will make people spend more time on chatting on the internet , rather than communicating face to face causing the interpersonal skill to be badly affected .
Some people spend a lot of time on it and forget their real lives .
Actually , I have found some people are very funny and interesting when I chat with them online .
However , they are quite boring when I talk to them in real life .
Teenagers are developing their interpersonal skills and social skills at this stage of their lives .
If they spend too much time on social media , it may cause problems with their mental development .
They may feel uncomfortable when they communicate with people face to face .
Some may share less time with their family and not know how to express themselves .
Moreover , some values on the websites may adversely affect teenagers and confuse them .
They may even do something that is wrong .
In conclusion , the emergence of social media sites is a double edged sword .
It can make our life simpler but also create more problems as well .
People can promote their friendships and relationships through these types of social media .
Whereas , it can also make people forget to communicate to their family and friends in real life , and negatively affect interpersonal skills .
But overall , the advantages far outweigh the disadvantages .
So , we need to make the best use of social media , and make it a fun way of adding some excitement when life is boring .
And try to bypass our shortcomings .
Remember to send greetings to your friends and family frequently .
Nowadays , with the advancement of technology , it is easy to communicate wherever you are .
The appearance of social media sites truly connects people .
People can know what recently happened to their friends by simply checking their Facebook profile .
We can not deny that social media sites truly make it easier for old friends to communicate with you , even though you may be in a different country .
However , using social media sites can reduce face-to-face communication , which affects interpersonal skills .
There are two advantages and two disadvantages of using social media in people 's daily lives .
First of all , using social media sites can closely connect people with their friends and parents .
Also , sharing messages and pictures allow people to express emotions that they may usually be too shy to express .
On mother 's day for example , people may be shy to say " I love you '' to their mothers in person , but more willing to type it on his or her mother 's facebook page .
Then their mother will know the extent of their emotion and feel warm inside .
On the other hand , when a teenage student is studying in a foreign country , the internet is the only means of communication with their family and friends .
Therefore , social media is sincerely good for people .
Not only can social media sites connect people with their friends .
People can also learn information about celebrities such as Obama and Bill Gates on Twitter and Facebook , and get first-hand news .
They can learn how these people succeeded , have the chance to talk with them , and know these famous people 's thoughts by using social media .
On the other hand , with the help of social media , some homeless people or someone who needs money to cure a disease can get help from the world quickly because once the person knows the information , he or she will share it to their " friends area '' . Once that happens , many people will know and spread the information to people who can give help .
On the other hand , there are also problems with the population of social media .
When people rely on social media to communicate with their friends and parents , they will be accustomed to communicate by typing and not talking .
Sometimes , people might even prefer to talk and meet with their friends online and gradually reject face-to-face communication .
Therefore , the social media truly limits the interpersonal skills causing people to lose the chance and the ability to practice talking and the connection of relationships between friends .
Secondly , without truly communicating in real life , people lose the ability to see the truth .
There are many people in social media with beautiful images and good content on their pages. However in real life , he or she may not have a job or lives poorly .
Teenagers may believe these people and can easily be cheated of their money .
Therefore , social media is not safe and can be bad to a teenager 's future development .
All in all , the appearance of social media truly helps people in many areas .
However , there exists some disadvantages which will affect people .
Advantages and Disadvantages of Using Social Media in Our Daily life and Society .
Nowadays , with the development of technology and society , social media has become more popular and even important in our daily life .
We communicate with others using social media , such as Twitter , Facebook and through microblogs more and more frequently .
There is no need to for people to go out of their home to interact with others : they chat online , share pictures , and tell others what they have done .
It seems that people build a good relationship with others through social media , but problems can come out .
People do not know how to talk with others face-to-face , especially strangers .
We need to talk about the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in your daily life .
As for the advantages , there are two aspects : it is more convenient to contact others and easier to know about others .
One advantage is that it is more convenient to contact others by social media .
In old days , if one wanted to tell some important news to a person who lived far away , he or she needed to write letters , which was a waste of time .
The long-distance and time-consuming nature of the task made spreading messages very difficult at that time .
Therefore , people may not contact with faraway friends and relatives unless there was something important to say .
However , people can now contact anyone who can use a computer at any time without delay .
Another advantage is that it is easier to know about others by using social media .
Without social media , it is difficult for people to know about a stranger .
They may collect information about that person by asking his friends , colleagues or family members .
And the information collected may not be complete and true .
Today , with the help with social media , people can easily get the information they want just by searching online , and can know what that person did everyday and at what time .
As for the disadvantages of social media in our daily life : wasting time , causing illness related to sitting for long periods of time in front of the computer , quickly spreading rumors and fake news , and , most importantly , damaging people 's ability to talk to others face to face with confidence .
It is strange to see people all sitting together at a table , but all facing their phones and not talking with one another .
If they find something humorous on their Facebook page , they may share a laugh with others over it .
No matter if it is a party , dinner , or just a simple get-together , there are always some people who bow their heads and play on their phones , even when their family and friends are in front of them .
In conclusion , there are both advantages and disadvantages of using social media .
People should enjoy the advantages of social media while being aware of and avoiding the disadvantages of it for themselves and their friends and families .
Today 's world is considered to be the era of social media sites like Facebook and Twitter , which are attractively connecting people around the world .
However , some people worry that social networks can affect interpersonal skills as it reduces face-to-face human contact .
The advantages and disadvantages of using such social media in the society are touched on here .
Nobody can deny social media 's advantages as the benefit it provides in connecting people regardless of nationality , race , culture and language .
Social media is a trending and suitable means of communication .
Social media brings convenience to the world .
Social media has erased the boundaries of distance and time .
There is no worry about the time it takes to deliver letters and packages .
Thanks to the help of social media , with just one click , you can contact your family and friends whenever you want .
You can share photos , videos , and every meaningful experience you have in your life .
More importantly , social media is cheap and easy to use .
Secondly , social media network opens the door of opportunities for people due to its great benefits in connecting people .
Many fresh graduates can find a job thanks to Facebook and Twitter .
Young people can widen their relationships , meet new friends , and learn wonderful things in many parts of the world .
In business areas , social media is a good tool to develop and advertise products and services .
On the other hand , social media also has disadvantages which have created worries and made it a controversial phenomenon .
More and more young people tend to live on social media , which reduces face-to-face human contact , and it can affect interpersonal skills and relationships in real life .
First and foremost , we should realize that social media world is not trustworthy and real .
Everyone can easily make up the personality and characteristics they want .
They can become anyone they want .
Through social media relationships are created , though friendships are only firm and real if people have gone through experiences and face-to-face interactions .
There is a story of a girl who has lived in a social media world for eight years .
In a chat room , she created close relationships with eight people .
She talked with them every night , trusted them and shared her life with them .
Eventually however , she discovered that he had been using eight different identities to chat with her all the time .
Furthermore , although convenience is one of the main benefits of social media , it is also a major weakness .
Many people put personal information on social media sites , this can can lead to crimes and deception .
People can use this information to deceive family and friends and to commit crimes such as blackmail , ATM theft and so on .
Finally , use of social media can affect human interpersonal skills when people increase the time on social sites and reject chances to expose themself to social daily activities and interaction with other people .
Recent research has shown that the more time people spend on social media sites , the less ambitious they become .
As a result , if this unexpected trend continues , it will have a bad effect on the younger generation .
In a nutshell , everything has its own pros and cons .
So does social media .
It is not simply convenient and beneficial in connecting people and developing businesses ; it can also damage people 's relationships and interpersonal skills .
Social media is only beneficial so long as we know how to use it in a suitable way , using the combination of both social media sites and daily life interaction to develop people 's potentials to the fullest .
