Keeping the Secret of Genetic Testing
What is genetic risk ?
Genetic risk refers to one 's chance of inheriting a disorder or disease .
People contract certain diseases because of genetic changes .
How much information is imparted by genetic changes regarding the chance of developing a disorder is not always clear .
If genetic results indicate gene changes associated with an increased risk of heart disease , that alone does n't guarantee heart disease a sure thing .
The opposite is also true .
If genetic results show that you do not have changes associated with an increased risk of heart disease , it is still possible to develop heart disease .
For some rare diseases , however , people who have certain gene changes are guaranteed to develop the disease .
When we are first diagnosed with a certain genetic disease , are we supposed to disclose this result to relatives ?
My answer is no .
On one hand , we do not want this potential danger to cause relatives concern for their futures .
When people close to us know we 've got a certain disease , their feelings and attitudes can easily change , with some friends doing too much and others simply disappearing .
And neither are what we want since most of us just want to live like normal people .
Surrounded by such concerns , it is very likely that we are distracted to worry about these problems .
It is a concern that will persist throughout our entire life , because we never know when the ''potential bomb '' will explode .
On the other hand , if there are ways to help control or cure the disease , those can be explored within the scope of the whole family .
For example , if exercising is helpful in fighting a family member 's potential for disease , one can always look for more fitness opportunities .
And we keep track of all family members ' health conditions .
At the same time , we are prepared to learn other relatives contracted this disease .
Here I want to share Forest 's view on this issue .
Although some people feel that an individual found to carry a dominant gene for Huntington 's disease has an ethical obligation to disclose that fact to any siblings , there currently exists no legal requirement to do so .
In fact , requiring someone to communicate their own genetic risk to family members -- who are therefore also at risk -- is considered ethically dubious by many .
"
Nothing is absolutely right or wrong .
If a certain genetic disposition test is very accurate , unavoidable , necessary for treatment and known by others , it is OK to disclose the result .
Above all , life is more important than keeping a secret .
Genetic risk does carry its consequences and should not be taken lightly within the family circle .
After all , what affects one family may or may not affect another. Although the families have a common genetic make up , shared by either of the parents .
In cases where an individual has gotten to know of a genetic disorder , disclosing or otherwise , his or her relative is solely a matter of preference within the individual moral system .
The issue on right to know or not to know is highly debatable although it is a genetic risk , one can not be entirely sure because the genetic information could possibly result from the families of either parents - his maternal and paternal uncles , aunts or cousin .
This also means that as soon a person is made aware of his or her genetic profile , he or she concurently has a knowledge about others .
This knowledge maybe relavant to them , and vice versa .
What can serve as an illustration is breast cancer .
Breast cancer is hereditary .
Should those who suffer from it keep the disease a secret or disclose the issue ?
It is also ones duty to insure they get check ups on their own .
Family structures and cultural beliefs can sometimes influence a family 's pattern of communication .
Depending on whether the genetic risk was discovered in a son or in a daughter , for example , if would be up to the carrier 's parents , knowing this , to decide who is allowed to tell .
For example , regardless of who first received genetic information , parents were usually seen as having the primary responsibility to pass on information , regarding the risk , to other offspring , adult , or otherwise .
In addition , a woman testing positive for BRCA1 would be expected to allow her brother or sister to disclose such information to a niece or nephew , rather than do it herself , although this may be further complicated by an individual 's response to risk information as the risk carrier may not want to know .
Hence , there were also tensions if carriers felt that they could neither pass on information to relatives who needed to know ( such as nieces and nephews ) nor persuade those with authority ( the parents ) to do so .
The notion of authority also extended vertically .
For example , a grandmother may have more authority to pass on information than an aunt , even when she is not at genetic risk herself while the aunt is .
From a practitioner 's perspective these findings are important because if law constructs of the family and kinship are a social construct they may not be in line with a geneticists view of family relationships , or about which blood ( or non-blood ) relatives should be informed and by whom ; this is also likely to be dependent on the cultural and ethnic context .
Ultimately , one must bring attention to who may benefit from such information and assisting those at risk to make considered decisions about disclosure .
Whose duty it is to inform at risk relatives or not greatly depends on the personal moral and the nature of how 'directive ' the risk is to them .
People who are related generally carry some similar genes .
In this case , if one of the family members or close relatives is found to carry the genetic risk , it is better for the patient to tell his/her close relatives about the issue and let others known about the risk so that his/her family members are able to perform some daily excersises to prevent the potential disease or they may go to hospital and check for the corresponding flaws .
In my opinion , although the announcement of carrying a genetic risk involves the issue of privacy , the carrier should be obligated to inform his relatives so they may attempt to prevent the potential disease .
I completely agree with this statement .
Focus on the negative side of announcing the genetic risk first .
Large numbers of genetically at-risk patients might want to keep their high probability for future disease a secret from others in their life .
Especially for young people who remain unmarried , if the have knowledge of their own genetic risk , then they also know any children they have would very likely carry the same trait -- but not always .
Keeping the information a secret from a spouse , therefore , could actually strengthen the relationship .
Secondly , information of this kind will be harder for some than for others and even in low-risk cases , some people might be overwhelmed by the possibility of future illness , so much so that they check into the hospital for further checks and/or increase their medication , all of which are pricey options that the family might not be able to bear .
Furthermore , divulging information related to genetic risk could negatively impact family relationships , with a doting mother perhaps becoming too clingy and overly concerned , or a fearful father pulling away to physically and emotionally distance himself from the events .
If the genetic risk is kept at secret , although it may benefit carriers to a certain extent and preserve privacy .
In the case of marriage , people should be honest and tell their spouse .
It is better to inform the other party and let them know the fact .
It is better for both parties to be honest .
Genetic diseases have a close relationship with the born gene .
One example is if the carrier is told that he/she has a risk of getting diabetes .
in such a case , the carrier has the option to elect to eat less candy and chocolate , thereby lessening their sugar intake , as well as informing their relatives , so that by knowing about their genetic risk , they too can elect to monitor their sugar intake , thereby preventing the disease .
Otherwise , if the other parties are unaware of their risk , they may be unable to prevent a future that includes diabetes .
In conclusion , it seems clear that the benefits of revealing genetic risks to the relatives of genetic risk carriers outweighs the costs .
Relatives of genetic risk carriers that know about the risks in their family 's genes can potentially prevent disease through daily exercise , assuming that the genetic risk carrier feels an obligation to tell them of their risk .
Among the different types of diseases , a large number are the result of genetic disorders .
Genetic factors can manifest overtly as disease , or simply be carried , making it hard , sometimes , to find out if one has a genetic predisposition to disease .
Whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives that his or her disease is caused by a gene is a long-disputed point .
Whereas , from a legal aspect , the answer might be no , from an ethical aspect , the answer should be yes .
There should n't be a law that forces a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell his or her relatives about his genetic problem .
It is immoral and impractical .
First , it is a person 's private knowledge if someone has any kind of disease .
Privacy protection falls under the human rights category .
If a law requires someone to tell others things that are private to him or her , especially when one is not willing to do so .
It is againt his or her human rights and it is against the law 's spirit .
The law is designed to be fair .
What is the basic difference between genetic disorder and other disorders ?
It is unfair to enact a law that only points to the genetic disorder .
In addition , it is impractical to make such a law .
An effective law should be clear and easy to execute .
There are many problems with executing this solution to genetic issues .
What is the range of genetic diseases in the family ?
Does the carrier only need to tell their direct relatives or tell everyone ?
If one would only have to tell direct family members and relatives , it would go against the spirit of fairness .
Other relatives may have the same issues that need to be addressed .
Should a government law impinge on the rights of a risk carrier to keep their genetic information private in order to ensure the carriers ' relatives are prepared to face a potential disease ?
However , there is the ethical point of view to consider .
It is up to the carriers themselves to act out of a feeling of responsibility , thereby alerting their relatives to their genetic predisposition to disease .
By doing this , they may be able to save some of their relatives ' lives .
Carriers committed to a healthy lifestyle before the age that the gene 's function is likely to manifest most strongly , may not show any signs of disease , even though the carrier has the genetic predisposition .
A typical example is genetic-caused hypertension .
Hypertension can be caused by genetic problems. Basically , it makes it harder for the carrier to digest the fat and salt in blood .
People usually get this kind of hypertesion after they become adults .
However , some are aware that they have a gene that may make them have more susceptable hypertention .
They can build a daily habit to eat less salt and fat ; thus to avoiding hypertension .
In a nutshell , society ca n't force genetic problem carriers to notify relatives , but one would hope the carriers would WANT to share this kind of information with family anyway .
By doing so , fewer loved ones are likely to suffer with the genetic problem .
In our age of rapid technological advancement , many medical breakthroughs become realities .
Genetic testing is ready and waiting if and when the patient makes that important decision .
It is able to detect illnesses , diseases and even parentage .
It will become a controversial issue in the future as it becomes easier to inform people of genetic risks .
If the knowledge of the genetic risk was to be shared within the family or relatives , there might have chances for them to have it in their blood , which they may do necessary precautions to prevent .
If it is a terminal genetic disease , most relatives will be disheartened to learn of it .
Some carriers will have the opinion it 's better to keep a secret .
This discussion will be whether a carrier should tell his/her relatives .
Some said that the genetic risk that is found in a person should be kept secret because it is considered as personal information which should be kept confidential .
Many patients could be depressed after understanding his or her genetic condition .
If one has a genetic disease after the test , he or she might not wish to inform close relatives as he might ended up disheartening his extended family .
Some will wish to keep it to themselves and hope to ensure that they will not bring in any pessimism into their family .
Furthermore , some will wish not to become a burden of anyone as seeking medical attention is relatively costly .
Hence , some see it as being considerate in keeping the genetic risk of in keeping the disease confidential .
On the other hand , others may think that it will be considerate to tell the relatives because they will have a higher tendency of getting the same genetic disease .
Hence , they will be able to seek help from medical specialists to find a cure to prevent the risk of getting the disease .
Nevertheless , it will depend on what kind of genetic disease , given in the context of current medical technology .
For example , breast cancer is a genetic disease and can be cured if it is caught in an early stage .
With the knowledge of said genetic risk , the relatives will do a medical-check up to prevent any further issues .
It would be considerate to inform patients of the risk of genetic diseases .
There are lots of challenges in seeking medical attention , so everyone should be given the right to know of genetic issues via heredity .
However , some think that it might be better for those who are ignorant about it and will continue leading a happy life .
Some may even know about having risk , which some may interrupt as adding misery .
All-in-all , it depends on the individual and also the nature of the disease , but he or she should be obligated to inform the relatives if there are possibilities in curing or preventing it .
Genetic testing is a personal decision , with the knowledge that there is a possibility that one could be a carrier or not .
Those who are born into a family with a history of genetic disease should be allowed to undergo genetic testing , even if there is no risk at all .
Preemptive testing is healthy as it will cast away unwanted doubts and affect the psychological thoughts of those who are affected .
For a genetic risk carrier , there should be a choice given with regards to informing his/her relatives .
They should not be forced or obligied to do so , as it may negatively and drastically affect the emotions of the genetic risk carrier .
Regarding the choice given , there must be rules that regulate and exercise personal decision making freedom .
If the genetic risk carrier is a minor or a child , then most likely the decision of informing that relative should be made with the consideration of the patient 's parents or legal guardian .
Such patients are still emotionally volatile and/or they may be unaware of the consequences of such genetic disorder , due to their young age .
Furthermore , the act of informing others without the consent of their parents or the patient themselves , could harm the psychological state of the affected family .
Thus , much thought need to put on the immediate family as it could caused a stir of unwanted events from the patient or the family members itself .
Some may feel hurt from the revelations , being that it may taint their image of the family .
Regardless , there is a responsibility to inform others of the situation and disorder .
There could even be a possibility that the genetic disorder could affect others in the family due to the same family tree .
The importance of informing relatives of such genetic disease is vital as it may help to raise awareness and prevention towards the genetic disorder .
Also , knowing this information will help the carrier 's relatives to make informed decisions of their own , including the choice to undergo genetic testing , thereby finding out what their own outcomes might be .
Thus , having the knowledge that their genetic disorder is benign would prove beneficial to their state of emotional well-being .
And , if the results turn out to be otherwise , then the family 's knowledge of what to expect can prepare them emotionally and psychologically , aiding them in making their upcoming decisions .
In addition , the genetic risk carrier can expect to be showered with moral and emotional support from relatives , providing they 've been made aware of the carrier 's situation .
Having support from relatives is a vital morale boost for the entire family , as it assures the genetic risk carrier that he/she is not alone in facing the illness , besides ensuring that the family appreciates their future risks , including the prospect that any member of the family could inherit the condition .
Therefore , the decision to inform relatives about such a genetic disorder is dependent on the situation and the affected family 's background , and they have the freedom to choose whether they want to inform others or not .
A person with a disorder , whether it 's mental or physical , is always easy for their families to be aware of .
When it comes to genetic issues , it is not that simple anymore .
Genetic disorder inheritance happens generation by generation , but not all offspring manifest the relevant symptoms .
Sometimes , since none of their relatives demonstrate any observable symptoms , family members at risk of possible genetic disorders are unable to detect potential places of harm inside their bodies .
As a result , in the case that when one of the members happen to feel uncomfortable or unnormal , he or she should aware that whether the disorder in his or her body is a genetic risk or not. Family members , experiencing uncomfortable or abnormal symptoms , should be made aware that they have genetic risk factors , so as to rule out those diseases to which they are predisposed .
Afterwards , should testing prove positive , the carrier faces the serious ethical issue of whether or not to reveal the problem to his or her relatives .
When gene testing reveals a genetic predisposition to disease in a child , medical personal must inform the parents , ensuring that the entire family is alerted to the risk factors they may all possess .
When the tested person is an adult , however , the situation becomes more complex , as adults generally make their own decisions as to whether or not to inform their relatives , regarding their genetic risk .
Doubtless , a carrier , who is a caring person , who loves his family , will tell his family about his health issue .
That is true and of course it is the obligation of the family member to protect and take care of the family .
Transversely , if a child of the family knows that he has the risk to become a genetic risk carrier , and to pass it to his child thereafter , his whole life will be a dilemma .
And of course , he or she will think of not having any children after getting married , and the same for the cousins as well .
As a result , the family generation stops the moment the adult carrier announces his issue .
In China , the older generation with traditional cultural backgrounds , will always think of having more children as well as grandchildren , to make the family stronger .
The reason WOWII the population of China decreased dramatically and so it was encouraged people would give birth .
One of the family member reflects genetic disorder , that would be an ethical dilemma .
Treatment technology in the past was not advanced enough to cure him .
Potential genetic risks mean he has to choose whether to protect his family or make them more prosperous .
He would have chosen not to undergo the testing and let the truth be mined .
This kind of ethical issue can not be judged by the others because they will not understand the position and duty of the carrier in the family .
In conclusion , people should think carefully of what is the consequences of telling relatives of his or her generic disorder .
It is an obligation for a carrier to inform his or her relatives , but also an obligation for a family member to liven up the family .
Regardless , if the disorder is to be fatal , revealing the truth is always the right thing to do .
In my opinion , the carrier should tell his or her relatives about it .
As a carrier , he or she needs a mental support group to go through in this situation .
It will be hard for an individual to deal with the issue on its own .
By telling his or her family , they could possibly help him or her get alternative solutions to the problem that they are facing right now .
Other than that , I believe that the stong bond we have with our family is the biggest pillar of support to the carrier .
Furthermore , as it is a genetic problem , it will be better for the carrier to inform his or her family as other family members might experience the same thing .
By making sure that their family members are aware of their genetic risk , the carrier is ensuring that those in his family have every opportunity to get themselves checked out and potentially prevent the onset of a predisposed condition .
In the case of a contagious disease , I believe it is especially important that the carrier share the information , as a contagious disease can spread from the carrier , to family members , and from there out into society .
For every action there are always pros and cons .
While some carriers choose not to reveal their disease to their families , because they do not want to cause their families worry or discomfort , I believe there are others , who fear they could be ostracized by their own families .
Furthermore , believing her treatment could cost a lot of money , a carrier might not wish to be burden her family .
One can understand and sympathize with the feelings of the carrier .
They do not want to be the source of unhappiness for the family .
We will never know whether these negative effects will happen if and when the carrier decides to disclose their condition .
In conclusion , personally I feel that it is better for the carrier to inform her family members about the issue .
Honesty is key to the carrier doing the right thing .
If something were to go wrong in the carrier 's life , without informing family members , it could be a huge regret in their life if they leave without them knowing about it .
It is also better to think about solutions for her problem with family members as there will be more support rather than thinking and struggling on your own .
In the end , I believe that the mental or financial support from your family could help the carrier fight against the genetic disease .
There are lots of cancer 's patient who were given second chance to live as a normal person as they have strong mental support from their loved ones .
In my opinion , as long as we keep our mind healthy and strong , we can fight any disease that comes to us when we are fragile and weak .
As the technology has continued advancing , it 's now reached a stage where advancement triggers certain ethical dilemmas related to real-world usage of this new tech .
Genetic testing is now a reality and , suddenly , determining one 's " carrier status '' is simple .
If used with good intentions , it can possibly prevent unnecessary crises -- or it could make the situation worse by revealing the carrier 's identity to the family .
The question is whether a carrier of a known genetic risk is obligated to inform relatives and I think the carrier has a right not to know , if so desired , and should n't feel obligated to anyone .
Firstly , genetic testing is not compulsory .
Some people may choose to do it so that they will not be a carrier .
If one chooses to live with uncertainty , it is okay and something that could be considered " normal '' as genetic testing was not always possible .
It could be better for the patient this way .
It is claimed to be a form of prevention to prevent disabilities .
Its the right purpose for going through genetic testing , so that a family can not have a disabled child .
I believe that the carrier has the right to not be obligated to telling people of his/her condition .
If it 's something the carrier can not accept , then it would be better to not know the truth .
I believe that even the carrier has the right not to know the true fact .
If one realizes they are the carrier , the emotional damage can be severe .
It could possibly causes a problem within a family due to obvious issues with children .
All in all , it 's entirely the carrier 's choice to confront the unsettling truth -- possibly with relatives who are facing it , too -- but there is no official obligation of legal requirement to inform anyone .
In fact , it 's imperative for a carrier to examine both sides of the issue , carefully considering the pros and cons of not only undergoing the genetic testing , but also dealing rationally with the results .
The depression a carrier might suffer after receiving troubling test results , as well as any accompanying feelings of guilt , might be stronger than they can bear and could create problems with newly developed or increasing levels of stress .
On the other hand , if family members are n't informed of the genetic disorder , their worries are avoided and the overall positivity can be a significant source of assistance in maintaining or overcoming the issue .
In my belief , the family 's mental health will remain strong and positive , and stress wo n't have a chance to accumulate .
For years , debates have raged about carriers of known genetic risks and whether informing relatives is , for them , an obligation or a choice .
Any individual at risk for a disorder has the right to undergo genetic testing , but whether results should be communicated to others , especially close relatives and/or extended family , is the topic worth discussing .
This is an issue that needs to be addressed as it involves a family-related ethical dilemma .
In this essay , few arguments will argue in support of a carrier informing relatives of the newly discovered genetic risk .
We were born surrounded by immediate family and extended relatives who welcomed us into this new world .
We were crying hard but were not alone. It 's our family and relatives that raise us .
Hence , they should be the people we are grateful for , and the people we would like to share our joys with .
However , in the case pertaining to a health issue or a serious disorder , this involves more than just the sharing of bad news .
One definitely has the right to disclose his or her health issues to anyone , but it 's also one 's responsibility to inform the family and close relatives .
As the case of health issue is related to genetic risk , the term " genetic '' highlights the risk of passing down the disorder to the next generation .
Therefore , I would agree to that it 's obligated for a carrier of known genetic risk to tell his or her relatives to avoid any family-related ethical dilemma that could be raise up in the future .
While one might argue that it 's up to carriers of the genetic risk to decide whether to disclose their health issue , or keep it to themselves , it 's certainly helpful to share findings with close relatives as it ensures solutions are properly discussed .
By disclosing their health issue , carriers will likely feel less stressed when facing the risks inherent to their disorder .
Relatives of carriers are certainly apt to be especially supportive and caring towards carriers of a known genetic risk .
By informing their relatives , carriers need never be alone in fighting those battles that will arise due to the risks of their disorder .
On top of that , as the genetic risk may pass down to next generation , it will involve more than just one family .
Therefore , I would agree that there is an obligation to tell relatives of both parties when one is about to get married and have children .
This would avoid the rise of more family-related ethical dilemmas .
There are more intangible advantages that could support the stance of informing the relatives once the results of testing are known .
In conclusion , in order to avoid the family-related ethical dilemma , it is best for any carrier of a known genetic risk to inform his/her relatives .
The benefits of doing so manage to outweigh the disadvantages .
Increased support from alternative channels is imperative as a means to more effectively guide those faced with the decision of informing relatives or choosing not to .
The decision to undergo genetic testing can only be made by the individual at risk for a disorder .
This is common law in society .
This , however , leads to a new problem : " Should carriers of a known genetic risk be obligated to inform relatives ? ''
This issue has been discussed for a long time .
However , there are still diverse points of view among people .
Thus , we are going to identify the advantages and disadvantages of the issue , which is " Should we ? '' or " Should we not ? ''
Firstly , I believe most of us would agree with the following : " I 'll be anxious for my family member when I 'm informed they 're carrying a known genetic risk . ''
Carriers usually do n't want to tell their families , preferring to spare them the anxiety and concern .
It is obvious that there will be better for one person to be worried than many .
However , many carriers are not strong enough to overcome the challenges themselves .
Family involvement means energy for greater support in the battle against " the demon . ''
The demon is not easily defeated and doing so requires a lot of energy and psychological support .
Family provides the courage and support that 's hard to reach when alone .
it is with these most essential elements that it is possible to overcome the challenges .
Furthermore , the known genetic risk is more serious than can be adequately described .
The seriousness can be larger than our imagination The seriousness of the risk can be larger than our imaginations can fathom .
Consequences , such as lying in bed for the remainder of one 's life , even the possibility of dieing immediately , are more than we can imagine .
Families consist of those people who are dearest in our life .
Without their concern and support , it will be difficult to stay this time .
Their role in life is too important to be substituted .
Our next generation can be affected by known genetic risks .
It is our responsibility to prevent relatives passing on these undesired traits .
A clinic or hospital will not tell the family without agreement of the carrier .
It is the hospital staff ethics to keep all patients ' secrets .
We can not blame them that if they are liable for undesired consequences .
However , the hospital can provide a counsellor 's advice to the carrier about the actions that can be taken .
Therefore , these circumstances will not happen again and again .
It is a method that benefits two parties , which is a win-win situation .
In conclusion , a carrier of a known genetic risk is encouraged to tell his or her relatives about that risk .
However , there may be special cases that are difficult to define .
Thus , advice from the hospital plays an important role .
The carrier is responsible for balancing his or her own interests with the benefits to their family , and even society as a whole .
It is a hard decision to make , but the right choice will result in the best outcomes for the carrier and their family in the future .
With being at risk for having a genetic disorder , many individuals have made the decision to undergo genetic testing .
Since the results will be known once the tests are done , each individual who is diagnosed as a genetic risk carrier faces an ethical problem : whether they should warn their relatives about the risk .
Or , they can choose to remain silent until the next carrier is diagnosed .
From my point of view , the carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives , due to the following reasons .
First of all , from the perspective of human rights , a genetic risk carrier should not be obligated to tell others .
This diagnosis can be regarded as private , and known only to the patient .
They may not want this truth to influence their life , or they may want to keep it a secret and not let others know about it .
This is reasonable , since the exposure of being a known as a carrier may cause them to be discriminated against or sympathized for by others , which are not positive factors brought to their life .
Secondly , the relatives of the carrier can also choose to have genetic testing regardless of the diagnosis of the carrier .
When people want to know whether or not they are genetic risk carriers , they can go to a doctor to ask about it .
Otherwise , they may just ignore the possibility .
However , a diagnosed carrier can inform their relatives that they may be genetic risk carriers .
They will have to face the truth , which may cause more worrying .
It can be argued that they can save lives because of the opportunity of early diagnosis .
However , this is not exactly true when other factors including psychological and social influence are taken into consideration .
If one such relative is told that he or she may have higher risk of getting sick , they may be scared about the unknown life , partners , spouse and if colleagues may choose to leave , and many other situations that could happen which means the relative 's life may be ruined .
On the other side , as stated above , a person who wants to confirm and has been prepared to face the result can choose to do the genetic testing individually .
In a nutshell , a carrier of a known genetic risk should have their own right to decide whether to tell their relatives or not .
This should be accepted from the point of human rights , freedom of acceptance of relatives as well as many other social reasons .
Otherwise , making it an obligation will restrict the choice of carriers and bring a lot of confusion to their relatives .
It causes more problems for a person to know for a fact that they are a carrier of a genetic disorder .
I agree that a carrier of a known genetic disorder is obligated to tell their relatives .
There are four reasons why people need to be brave and share their problems regarding a genetic disorder .
First , the carrier and their family can take physical and mental precautions by reducing the chance of it being inherited to offspring .
Many genetic diseases such as Down Syndrome and Taylor Syndrome can be prevented if the mother takes the proper medication and does n't consume harmful food during her pregnancy .
This information may not be known by the mother if she does n't tell her relatives about her condition .
The more people ( relatives ) that know about her problem , the more information channels are provided .
If all efforts have been made , but the children still suffer from the syndrome , then the family will have to accept this fact and do whatever they can to provide a good environment for their children 's growth .
This is not the parent 's fault because there is still a chance of the gene being inherited .
So , they also have to prepare mentally .
Secondly , genetic diseases cost highly for the treatment and medication .
Albinism is just one of the examples .
People who have albinism have sensitive skin and it needs regular treatment .
Unlike people with a high proportion of skin pigment , those with albinism are prone to sunburn and other skin diseases .
If they do n't treat their body well , such as by using sunglasses or wearing sunscreen when outdoors , the chances are good that they will also get skin problems that may also lead to cancer .
Once you suffer from cancer , the price of medication is very expensive .
To prevent bigger problems from happening , it takes a lot of effort to take care of your body .
If the patient does n't tell his or her relatives , it may be too late to get their support and prepare financially .
Thirdly , some diseases are not noticeable and may lead to serious health problems .
One of the disease markers is the sickle cell trait .
Usually , people are not aware if they carry the sickle cell gene , which may lead to a circulatory problem , such as blood blocking .
If a parent knows they are a carrier of the gene , they can bring in their children to undergo genetic testing without shame or the fear of being judged .
It is important for the parents of children with genetic disorders to be supportive and understanding .
When these children become teenagers , they may experience many social problems arising from their condition .
People can be sometimes be fearful of others who seem different , and engage in mocking and cruel behavior as a result of these personal anxieties .
A strong mental condition and conviction must be built from within and from the closest friends .
If not their family then who else is willing to do that ?
It is not a heavy job for the family if they have prepare their mental first by disclosing the information of the probability that their children may suffer from the genetic disorder .
In this modern world , the technologies are improved a lot compared with the last century .
Particularly , in the medical field , there is a great improvement in many treatments for many formerly incurable diseases , and genetic testing is one of the methods which is used to diagnose an individual at risk for a genetic disorder .
The medical authorities state that only the individual who is at risk for a genetic disorder can make the decision to undergo genetic testing .
However , once a test has been conducted and the results are known , an ethical dilemma is born .
The question is whether the carrier of a known genetic risk should tell his or her relatives .
In my opinion , the carrier of a known genetic risk should tell his or her relatives .
This is because his or her relatives have the right to know .
As many people realize , a genetic disorder can be related to the carrier 's relatives which means that other family members is also at risk , so this problem should be treated seriously .
Every family member has a right to know what is going on with them .
If they do not even know that they are at risk for a genetic disorder , how can this be right ?
For instance , John was informed by his doctor that he is at risk for a genetic disorder but he did not tell his brother , James .
Although telling James about this is horrible to some extent , he should know what is going on .
This might be beneficial for his future if he is aware of the risk of carrying this disorder .
The next point is that telling relatives can raise their awareness of having the similar genetic disorder , allowing them to be aware of the disorder .
Genetic disorders are innate , but the great improvement in medical treatments makes it possible for humans to prevent the disorder or to reduce the negative effects of the disorder .
In addition , doctors usually quote a statement , " Prevention is better than the cure '' ; this gives us an idea that preventing a disorder has far more advantages than curing it .
Awareness of possibility having a genetic disorder may help in diagnosing a genetic disorder for a person , and therefore , this may make the prevention of a certain disorder possible .
For example , hypertension is partially due to genetic factors , but environmental factors also play an important role .
People who are aware of having such a disorder can prevent the disorder happening by adapting a healthy lifestyle , including having a balanced diet and exercising for at least 30 minutes every day .
To sum up , a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
It is their right to know about that , and this may also save their lives by preventing the disorder from happening .
Together with the advancement of technology over past decades , medical advancement has increased exponentially and further enhancements are still constantly being upgraded. Empowered with advance medical knowledge , doctors are able to diagnose and perform genetic testing for patients to help them take necessary steps to protect their life. However , once a test has been conducted and the results are known , the question of whether or not to disclose the results to relatives becomes a challenging issue to both patient and doctor. In my opinion , I feel a strong urge to support the obligation to inform patients ' relatives .
As it is a genetic risk , the patient 's next-of-kin might have a high chance of carrying the gene. Therefore informing their relatives is important so that necessary preventive actions can be taken to avoid any unforeseen circumstances. For example , if you are the only child in a family , and are suffering from a genetic disease , that genetic trait might be passed on to your next generation if you have a child. So by making your family members aware of the situation , it would reduce family stress and suffering of any pressure on you to have children. However , social ethical issues such as discrimination and privacy are the biggest concerns and potential barriers to enforce patients or doctors to disclose information to patients ' relatives. It challenges confidentiality and privacy principles. Currently , under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ( HIPAA ) in the United States , there is no legal obligation requirement to disclose information to relatives. It is up to the patient whether or not he or she wishes to disclose to family members. Early disclosure to family members results in positive reaction and prevention , as in the case of Angelina Jolie. She chose to disclose information and underwent treatment to reduce her risk of breast cancer significantly ; to under five percent. Her reason for disclosing her own story was that she did not want to live under the shadow of cancer .
There are still people against revealing private information. As in the case of Alzheimer patients , it is the patient 's own choice to disclose information. Research has shown that doctors have tried to interpret to whom and how Alzheimer disease information be disclosed in order to minimize potential negative impact to family members ( DementiaToday , 2012 ) . There are associations that provide help to Alzheimer patients such as the Alzheimer 's Association ( Alzheimer 's Association , 1980 ) . Although there are still thousands of genetic risks from diseases out there , the need to receive immediate understanding and support from family members is not being addressed. It is vital help that patients need in a difficult time of their lives .
In conclusion , the state should pass a bill which would measure and provide information to doctors who opt to reveal to relatives facts about their family member 's genetic disease , and to determine the situations where it should be the patient 's decision. In addition , the state could create assistance programs giving aid to patients by encouraging them to open up for their own benefit as well as that of their family members. Even though this sharing of information may still be challenged from a social ethical standpoint , in the long term , individuals potentially could accept and adopt appropriate measures to protect their own health and that of their loved ones .
At present , genetic research has advanced greatly due to many technological advancements .
Not long ago , the Human Genome Project , sponsored by several large multinational corporations ( MNCs ) , was initiated .
In comparison , the field of genetic testing enables people to be aware of the risk of a genetic disorder , as the technology has been around for a while .
While most people agree that each individual has his own right to decide whether to undergo a genetic test or not , they have different opinions on whether it is the patient 's responsibility or freedom , to share the result with his or her relatives .
In my opinion , the patients , which are carriers of some known genetic risk have the responsibility to share the truth with family members .
Admittedly , it is a social obligation to be responsible for the life of other people .
To wociety as a whole , it is a duty .
Take H1N1 as an example , everyone in Singapore including studentsl , travelers and workers are required by law to take their temperature and report the results to the proper government agency .
To family members , it is also a moral obligation .
How can they not tell their loved ones the truth about their medical history and risk putting their loved ones in danger ?
The basis of family is that everyone trusts and love each other with no doubts .
Without trust and love , there is no difference between family and a bunch of strangers living together .
Hence , it is essential to tell family members about the risk of their genetic disorder as a social responsibility and a favor .
Moreover , telling family members the truth is the fastest and easiest way to get their support .
Without the support of loved ones , a patient 's life is no better than death .
Family members are a crucial factor to successfully get over any troubles from a genetic disorder .
A study of New York University in 2010 shown that patients with family members around recover 2-4 days faster than those taken care by professional nurses .
Even for those patients with terminal diseases , the duration of their survival is 30 % longer due to family support .
Some people might say that telling the truth may erase some of the unnecessary doubts and panics which will endanger the family harmony .
While every family needs to go through this or that kind of troublesome situations. The more troubles that a family has gone through together ; the greater bond that will be established between the family members as well as the greater amount of trust , love , and understanding .
Hence , for a family in which every member is truly believing in each other as well as loving each other ; all these troubles are just testaments to make them stronger .
Just as in the lyrics of the Kelly Clarkson song , what does n't kill you make you stronger .
Being from an Asian society where genetic testing is not a common practice , I do think that it is the choice of the patient whether he or she wants to tell his or her relatives about his or her disease .
The courage to undergo genetic testing and to inform their relatives about the risk that they may have may result in people being judgmental , while actually it is just a risk and not a confirmed case .
Furthermore , since it is the person 's genes that are affected , he has the right to determine with whom he wants to share the information .
Nevertheless , while I feel that a carrier should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives about the genetic risk , I would like to suggest that the person at least share the information with her or his potential partner ( husband or wife ) since the individual 's genetic risk may affect their future children .
Many people in our society are not well informed about many genetic diseases , and many of them will most likely judge or at least differentiate those who have genetic diseases since they feel that the patients are abnormal or weird .
This is because many people associate genetic diseases with diseases like Bubble-Boy disease , autism or down-syndrome .
In those diseases , many who are affected do have different physical characteristics compared to those without the genetic diseases .
While we do know that we should not discriminate against them based on their limitations , many people still do consiously or subconsciously .
In this particular case , we are discussing whether a person should tell his relatives about him being at RISK of a particular genetic disease .
It is normal for people to demand a fair and similar treatment others. Therefore it is normal for people to try to keep some of their personal issues to themselves , in case some judge them or treat them differently.Many people love to hear what they want and therefore they may just ignore the word 'risk ' and assume that the person has suffered from the disease .
To prevent that from happening , I do feel that it is up to the person whether or not he wants to share the information with his family since his family may either be paranoid or judge him and act differently .
Especially when it is just a risk , the option is really his since he is not an actual sufferer .
There may be some people who say that it is necessary to tell the family members about the risk since some of them may be affected , while I do think that this view has a point , how much you can trust your family regarding this issue may also be a case .
Maybe we can trust our immediate family members but can we really trust all the other relatives ?
Furthermore , since the genetic risk or genetic disease is a very personal case , it is up to that person to tell their relatives about it .
However , as I said earlier , it is better for the person to at least tell their future partner about the potential risk , as his genetic risk may affect his children later .
This information needs to be at least acknowledged by the other party before they make the decision to get married and have children .
There may be situations where both the husband and wife are carriers , and therefore they should not have any children , as their children may not be able to survive after they are born .
Or in a less extreme case , the child may be disabled .
This piece of information does play a role in family planning matters , so although no one is obligated to tell anyone about their genetic risk , they should be encouraged to tell their future partner about it .
In conclusion , whether or not the carrier wants to tell his relatives of his genetic risk , the choice is his because it is his own gene and he has the full right of it .
When thinking of whether he should tell his relatives , he may have different considerations other than people 's judgement or possibly making them worry for nothing , but no matter what choice he makes , we need to respect it and we have no right to say that he must tell his relatives about it .
We all know that life is priceless and that we have no right to judge a person 's choices .
With the improvements of technology , genetic risk can be detected .
" Genetic '' refers the chance of inheriting a disorder or disease .
Therefore an entirely new dilemma is born ; should a carrier of a known genetic risk be obligated to tell his or her relatives ?
This essay will discuss the reasons why the relatives should be informed of children 's genetic risk factors .
One of the reasons that the parents should be informed is that they have to decide whether they are capable to of raising a child with genetic risk .
The child with genetic risk may not have the ability to work or to contribute to the family life .
They may not able to enjoy a normal lifestyle .
Not everyone can survive in this competitive world .
If someone is not able to properly care for themselves then parents and relatives may need to work longer than they expected to assist them .
If that child is sick , the family may also be burdened with the extra cost of medication .
The entire family can suffer because of this burden .
If a child wo n't be able to work and may suffer their entire life it is a burden for the parents to decide their fate .
Another reason parents should know the truth about their child is for the good of the nation .
Too often , news reports tell us of babies abandoned at the hospital after frightened parents realize the heartache and crippling costs that lie ahead .
Countries like Singapore suffer a shortage of citizens able to productively contribute to the country 's well being .
Each year , however , the government shows up a significant amount of money to assist the disabled through resources like medical subsidies and specially dedicated schools .
When freed from worrying about increasing numbers of disabled citizens , governments can concentrate on developing other important areas , such as the armed forces and education .
Citizens have the responsibility to support their country in many ways .
Moreover , many miscarriages are conducted in a hospital every day .
It is easier for people to accept it morally .
Therefore I believe parents have the right to know about the healthiness of their child .
Many people believe everyone has the right to enjoy the world .
The question is , however , whether anyone can enjoy a life filled with repeated hospital visits , countless injections and day after day of sickness and pain .
Parents know what 's best for their children and after being informed , they 'll do that which is in their child 's best interests .
And where possible , helping medical research to prevent future illness is in everyone 's best interest .
In my opinion , the carrier of a known genetic risk has no moral obligation to inform others .
Genetic testing is a personal choice .
One should have full control of his or her information and it is their right to decide whether or not to disclose it to some one else .
As far as I am concerned , when a couple are going to have babies , they are going to run a few tests and see whether or not they could have some genetic diseases .
The results are then disclosed to the husband and wife .
This is not the case I am talking about here .
The most obvious reason for those who argue for this opinion is that the relatives of the carrier are at high risk of carrying these diseases .
They have the right to know whether they are at risk .
Telling them the truth can prevent the unnecessary expense of multiple tests .
They can also take immediate action to reduce the possibility of contracting this disease .
The A gene might result in a person having disease C .
He is tested and knows that he has the AA gene .
This means both parents have gene A , putting them at high risk for developing disease C. They could avoid the expense of additional testing to determine whether or not the risk exists if just one test determines the existence of gene AA .
With the knowledge that one parent possesses gene A , the expense of additional testing can be avoided .
Family members can then explore possible preventative measures , if any , to prevent the disease from taking hold .
This can also be achieved by personal choice , however .
The option exists to inform relatives of their potential risk .
Most people will inform their relatives .
One might also encourage certain relatives to have a genetic test if necessary .
There are possible negative consequences if they disclose their genetic results to certain relatives .
If a person is obliged to tell their relatives , he or she might face discrimination from certain relatives .
He or she might be advised to not get married or have children .
For example , if an unmarried person has gene a and gene a is sufficient for a very serious disease .
After he takes the test and be obliged to tell his relatives , so everyone knows that he is a carrier .
So all the married couples go Have tests run and know they are not carriers. They might subconsiously see him differently and worry that he will find a wife who will carry this gene as well .
Third , it is hard to define relatives .
If a gene runs in the family and one of the family members test positive , whom does he need to tell .
If it is a big family , is he obliged to tell everyone ?
Spouses usually have very close relationships , so if person A tells his family that he has this gene , then his uncle C knows , and tells his wife D that he needs to run a test because his cousin has this disease .
However , wife D does not even have the risk of developing this disease .
Then wife D might tell her mother , who likes to gossip on her way to the theatre .
In less than a week , half of the town knows that person A has a risked gene , and that his family might be a genetically at risk .
Then nobody wants to marry A , or their relatives .
This is the potential consequence if one does not have full control of their information , especially when the party that he is obligated to disclose his information to is a potentially large group , such as relatives .
In conclusion , the carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
The carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell their relatives .
Nowadays , people not only pursue comfort in their own lives , but also pursue better development for future generations .
Since the technology of modern society is so advanced , it is possible for people to make the decision to have a genetic test so as to be clear whether or not they carry a genetic trait which can be passed on to their children .
The ethnic dilemma is if people are responsible for telling their relatives that they carry a known genetic risk .
In my opinion , it is clear that the individual should be responsible for telling their family and relatives .
There are two basic reasons .
The first reason is the importance of being responsible for your own wellness and the health of your relatives , and the second reason is a responsibility for your children .
Allowing your relatives and families to be aware of your genetic risk is good for your own wellness as well as the health of your relatives .
If you carry that genetic risk , then there is great possibility that your relatives , like parents or siblings , carry the genetic risk as well .
The genetic risk that you carry may or may not affect your health and put you in danger .
If you have n't undergone the genetic testing , it will be left to fate as to what will happen to both you and your relatives .
However , if you have undergone the testing , and know that you are a carrier , you are acting responsibly for your whole family .
Even though you ca n't eliminate the risk completely , you can at least try to be alert to avoid getting the disease .
People in your family who are more at risk for infection can go to the hospital for regular checkups .
Therefore , it is your responsibility to tell your family to be prepared for preventing and fighting the disease .
You are also being responsible for the next generation by telling the truth that you are a carrier of a genetic risk .
It will be possible for your child to carry the same genetic risk if you do n't tell your wife the truth before she gives birth to the baby .
Being the parent , you are not being responsible for future generations , since you are allowing the genetic risk to be passed on from generation to generation and and are aware of it .
However , if you tell your wife and relatives the truth , you are offering them the chance to decide whether to have a child or not .
And if you still decide to have the baby , since technology is advancing so quickly , it might be possible in the future to alter genes .
This is the responsibility of being a parent .
And , in my opinion , this is the main purpose of undergoing that genetic testing in the first place .
In conclusion , once genetic testing has identified a specific risk , a carrier has important , new responsibilities , not only to themselves but also to immediate and extended family members .
To tell or not to tell .
Consider a case where one decides to undergo genetic testing and now knows the result .
They now know they 're at risk. They are a carrier .
Now the question as to whether or not one should inform potentially at-risk relatives looms large .
There are really a lot of things we need to consider .
Every choice we make may have a huge impact on their whole life .
So , what should we do ?
Tell them or keep this secret until we die ?
Many people feel that we should tell our relatives since we really care about their health status .
For example , diabetes is a genetic disease .
Once we discover we are carrying this genetic risk , it is important to tell our family members because they may carry it as well .
If we tell them , they may start paying more attention to their daily habits and modify their behavior to reduce their risk .
It is important for young people to know .
The earlier we tell them , the earlier they can develop better habits and continue them the rest of their lives .
Then , they may undergo genetic testing to see whether they are carrying the gene or not , which is also better for them .
However , some people may question why we want to interfere with their lives .
Sometimes it is extremely hard for them to accept this news , especially if they are going to find out that they or their descendants may have a severe disease , like a blood disease which is untreatable .
Imagine that you are living like a normal person , and suddenly one day your relative comes tells you that there is a possibility that you may encounter some disease in the future , then what kind of feeling are you going to have ?
It may affect our lives in such a manner that we will think about it every day .
Anxiety can easily overwhelm until everything revolves around this one troubling issue .
Testing is not infallible , however , and mistakes can occur. If and when that happens , it means we 've cursed them with a lifetime of misplaced worry .
Even so , I feel strongly that it 's a patient 's responsibility to tell family members the truth .
Given the life altering nature of this news , it 's in everyone 's best interest to approach the situation as positively as possible .
We can not let it go .
It 's important to realize that , yes , their lives will be affected , but they 'll also have the opportunity to make positive choices for a better future .
Only the knowledge of their potential risk will bring about a beneficial new focus on health .
Once informed , they might think differently about bringing children into the world. Perhaps they 'll approach the situation with an extra level of caution and an eye on prevention .
No matter what , the choice to be tested is theirs .
Perhaps once they know , they 'll opt for testing and the self discovery it brings .
It is our obligation to tell our loved ones and help them even if it will have a huge impact on them .
A genetic risk carrier should be obliged to tell .
Genetic testing will be conducted when the individual is at risk for a possible disease .
There is extensive social controversy as to whether or not the results should be revealed to his or her relatives .
Some say the carrier should be protected because it is an invasion of privacy .
He or she has the right to not tell anyone .
However , in my opinion , it is the obligation of a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell his or her relatives about their actual situation .
This essay will illustrate it in two aspects .
First of all , it can be an alert for the family members of the patient and it will let them be aware of the possible disease that they may also have .
As we all know , genetic risk carriers are likely to pass the genetics to their family members .
Once one person in the family is found to be carrying a genetic risk , other members in his or her family may also have the risk of disease .
Some diseases may not show symptoms until the carrier is older .
Therefore , telling relatives about the situation may avoid a lot of trouble and allow time for proper treatment .
Sometimes their life may even be saved if they are told early enough to get timely treatment .
So , out of consideration for other family members , the relatives should be informed .
This can help avoid genetic diseases passed to the next generation when they intend to have babies .
They should let their spouse know about his or her situation before marriage .
They need to ask for doctor 's advice before they plan to have a baby .
Some genetic genes will pass only to boys rather than girls , or vice versa .
If the carrier refuses to tell the truth to his or her spouse , another life may risk inheriting the genetic disease .
I read a story like this in the newspaper years ago .
A couple in China had a son who was five years old .
Their son unfortunately fell ill and he was diagnosed with a genetic disease that was very serious .
They were told that the wife 's family carried the polygenetic disorder and passed to boys rather than girls .
Their son had inherited the genetic disease .
However , the wife actually already knew about the polygenetic disorder before the marriage but she did not tell her husband .
Their son was died after one year 's treatment , and after that the couple got divorced .
If the wife had not hidden the truth and instead asked for a doctor 's advice before they had baby , the tragedy may not have happened .
In a nutshell , a carrier of a known genetic risk has the responsibility to tell his or her relatives .
On the one hand , it can tell members of the carrier 's family the possible disease they may have and can perform treatment in time if possible .
On the other hand , if the carrier hides the truth they may pass the disease to the next generation .
Nowadays , with the advancements in technology , it is easy to do genetic testing .
We can not deny that genetic testing really helps people a lot when they face a genetic disorder problem .
However , I think that genetic information is a person 's private information which should be protected by the law .
Therefore , I think a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives .
The three reasons are as follows .
First , genetic information is something personal and which is private , like one 's bank card key .
Other people , even family or relatives , should not be told without an individual 's permission .
The government should implement laws to protect the genetic information and keep it private .
Once people 's genetic information is told to other people ,
They may know the person 's potential disability , disease or other bad things naturally .
They may set a bias on this person even abandon him or her .
People do not have the ability to choose their genetics ; they should not be thought of badly because of bad genes .
I think whatever the genetics are , or whether the gene is a match with their parents , it should not be told to anyone. Not even his or her family or relatives .
Secondly , the carrier of a known genetic risk may destroy the peace of a family or even break the relationship between the child and the adult .
Once family or relatives know that the person carries this genetic risk .
However happy they were , there would be some barriers which will destroy the family gradually .
The relationship between parents and their children should not be tested only in the genetic way ; it is something much deeper and tighter .
Parents give knowledge and love to their children , and parents feel happy with the company of their children .
The children also rely on their parent to live .
When they grow up , they take care of their parents and are thankful for their dedication .
The relation between parents and children is all about love and dedication .
No one wants to see a broken family that is due to one being a carrier of a known genetic risk .
Therefore , I think a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives without the person 's permission .
Finally , the technology of testing the gene is not very accurate now .
There also exists some probability of the test being wrong .
If the wrong test result was not found by the doctor , the family and the children may be sad and have a struggling time for their whole life .
Therefore I think a person with a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives .
Therefore , considering the person 's privacy and the existence of wrong test results , for the peace of the family , I support the idea that a person with a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives without their permission .
A carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
More and more illnesses are discovered to be related to genetics with the development of medical technology .
People will know about whether they carry a genetic predisposition to certain diseases after they have done the genetic test .
If the test discovers no problem , that would be wonderful .
However , not everybody is lucky enough to not carry any disease-prone genes .
Once people find they have the genetic predisposition for a disease , they should be responsible for telling their relatives , or at least their immediate family members .
It may be awkward and embarrassing for a person to tell relatives that he or she is a carrier of a known genetic risk .
But they are all from one family and have the same forefather , therefore of course they have some of the same genes .
Therefore there is no reason to be shy or afraid .
If the person tell their relatives that he or she carries a disease gene , his or her relatives can go to hospital to check whether they also have a disease gene .
Then the relatives can prepare themselves to prevent the disease from occurring .
Also , they can prevent the disease from going to their offspring .
If the relatives carry that disease gene , they can share the experience with him or her and give some help. They will also teach him or her how to communicate with others about this issue .
If he or she gets married , he or she must tell his or her partner that he or she carries the disease gene .
They can then have a healthy baby with the help of the doctors .
Otherwise , if he holds back the genetic risk , they may have an unhealthy baby and may cause the death of the baby or end of their marriage .
There is a story I watched on TV .
A couple did not have a child after being married for a long time , their parents were anxious about that and asked them to go to hospital to check what was the problem .
After they came back from the hospital , the man told his parents that the problem was that he carried a disease gene so they can not have a baby in their life time .
The woman did not know the test result , but she overheard the talk and decided to divorce her husband .
After they got the divorce certificate , the man showed her the test report ; it said that the woman carried the disease gene instead of the man .
At that time , the woman knew how much her husband loved her but he ruined her happiness .
Tears could fix nothing .
People can not avoid carrying the disease genes with which they born .
However , they can avoid the disease genes being inherited by their children .
Telling their relatives that they may have a risk of carrying the disease gene can make family members bond closely , also , many risks and conflicts can be avoided .
Genetic testing is a beneficial way to predict and protect each individual at risk for a disorder .
However , there is a family-related ethical dilemma regarding the carrier once the test has been conducted and the results are known .
I believe the carrier 's relatives have the right to know the results .
Everone in the family has the right to know the truth .
It is said that genetic testing involves emotional and social risks , the potential negative impacts of the risks do exist , however the consequences would be significantly more if other members of the family did not know .
There are not able to have a suitable method to protect themselves , including emotionally .
Take Angeline Jolie for example , she is famous but she still revealed the truth about her genetic testing regarding the development of her breast cancer risk .
Everything is not that bad if you know how to look at the bright side with hope .
People may feel angry , depressed , or even guilty about their results .
In some cases , a carrier can suffer tension within a family since the result can be a risk to others .
However , I believe it is just a normal reaction to this situation .
In addition , while it is possible that an individual may experience discrimination either in employment or in their social life , people can face more severe consequences , including sickness or death , if they can not overcome this harsh situation .
Life can be difficult at times , but people can not place blame or feel it is unfair .
You must find enough strength to overcome the hard times .
Furthermore , living with a secret is not a good feeling , especially if the situations of other relatives become worse. You could feel guilty and depressed .
Moreover , the truth can not be hidden forever ; when it is revealed , it will be more shocking and upsetting .
As a result , it is in the interests of the carriers and their relatives to tell the results of the genetic testing .
Last but not least , though genetic testing is a personal matter , telling the result to your family can improve and develop understanding and sympathy of each other as well as promote awareness of taking care of everyone 's health .
That plays an important role in the possibility that relatives can overcome the discrimination of society and anxiety about the risks .
To put it in a nutshell , I believe that people should have be obligated to tell their relatives about the genetic testing results for the good of their health .
It can be very difficult , but necessary , for the carriers and their families .
In addition , emotional preparations and the explanations of your genetic condition are also important so that you can convey the correct information to your family and other relatives. If necessary , you can guide them if they wish to conduct similar genetic testing .
The Impact Of Social Media
Social media plays a vital role in our lives today .
It is almost impossible for us to keep away from it .
I started becoming involved with Facebook a year ago , when I just arrived at Singapore .
Now I have over 500 friends on Facebook , and I bury myself with hundreds of seeds every day .
Through social media , we know each others status , changes , and so on .
For example , we would not send SMS to each individual because we changed our contact numbers .
Instead , we will post a seed and tag our friends to inform them of the changes .
If you are not with it , you will just get lost .
In certain aspects , social media has brought us quite a lot of conveniences .
It is even more convenient than talking through the phone because it is free .
We can discuss everything we like , and we can have more personal space. Also , our friends have more access to us by knowing what we do and what we like .
Also , we get a chance to talk to public people such as popular stars and know their lives better .
In China , a lot of government organizations have open blogs to communicate with people like firefighters , police officers , and so on .
Socia media allows them to explain to or inform people what is going on .
And actually lots of rescuing jobs are done with the help of social media , such as looking for people who get lost .
With more convenient and human communications , the relationship between the government and the people are largely improved .
What 's more , various cultures can be shown to us through social media .
We can learn more about news and culture through social media .
From this vantage point , social media has allowed us to learn more .
However , we put less importance on talking face to face since social media is convenient , advanced and interesting .
Even when we gather together , people find themselves with less to talk about and instead choose to get on their social media accounts .
When we are far away , social media makes it seem like we are close together and when we are by each other 's side , we seem to be far away .
This kind of feeling makes people 's relationships not as stable , secure , and reliable as before .
Besides , there are more people showing their pictures of yummy food or traveling experience .
To some extent , this makes our lives more luxurious and blundering .
I long to visit the places where all my friends take the beautiful pictures .
Sometimes , I even can not sleep very well because of all the excitement .
Social media makes our life patten so fast and leaves us less time to think about our life .
Social media is becoming more important and we need to think of more ways to make it serve us better .
Interpersonal skills , like any other skills , require practice .
Besides that , these skills require time to develop and adapt to .
The burgeoning of social media definitely has its stint , but as with all good things , it is better to have them in moderation .
Convenience and efficiency are two very important benefits of social media .
While millions of users are connected at any one time , much information can be readily available at their perusal .
This improves the connectivity between the users .
For example , one is able to send notifications and other information that used to have to be sent in hardcopy previously over the web , which takes only seconds .
The receipent will then receive the information almost immediately depending on the quality of the network .
This convenience can be perceived as real-time .
Communications are also greatly improved .
In the past communications were done by ways such as a telegram , snail mail and poor-quality voice calls .
With the welcoming of applications such as Skype and Face-time , any individual can phase off most of the olden day communication methods .
Aside from hearing their voice , a web-camera could be affixed to emulate a 'real ' interaction with expressions and gestures .
Communication would have taken a different turn if not for easily available social media .
However , it is a good practice to not use social media extensively .
Intimate interactions are not found in social media interactions , particularly touching one another .
Having to meet and interact allows one to be closer to the recipient .
It involves a level of dynamic interaction which coordinates the motor , thinking , and verbal cortex of the mind .
Most of the interaction is thinking and typing .
As a result , one does n't necessarily train to use the parts for proper interpersonal relations .
It is entirely incorrect to blame social media for lack of interpersonal skills .
Howard Garner studied the effect of multiple intelligences and among people , he realized that some have it and some do not and that interpersonal intelligence is a form of skill developed on itw own .
Howard Garner mentioned that in utilising tests , different intelligences can be charted and ranked .
Fundamentally , those who scored low on interpersonal skills are more likely to stumble when this skill is needed .
Though social media is not necessarily bad , it must be used accordingly for work , family , and friends .
Other types of use should also be noted : informing , interacting , discussion , etc .
You must also look at the space of separation between the parties .
For people who are living very far from one another , the extensive use social media is justified .
For those who live within the community should at least meet face to face , and not use social media as the primary source of communication with each other .
This will improve interpersonal skills through dynamic practices between individuals and their real-time presence .
The inclusion of intimate presence and relative touch could also bring a better rapport between those interacting .
Recently , the rise of social media has helped people to have a closer connection with each other ; it is a more convenient and cheaper way to have contact compared with face to face meetings .
In my opinion , social media websites such as Twitter and Facebook will not affect the chance for people to have face to face contact and thus negatively affect interpersonal skills .
On the other hand , it may even increase the chance of interactions among people .
First , social media networks have a user base , it helps to link people from different parts of the world .
In the days without the social networks , some may not have had the chance to know people they have never met before , including from different countries .
The number of people that they know may only be limited to the people they meet in daily life , like classmates and co-workers .
Therefore , social networks brings more and more connections between people and they may have a chance to chat with people they never known before , and this helps to develop the interpersonal skills as well .
Secondly , although social network takes time for people to chat online but not face to face , they may still decide a time to meet each other face to face .
In this case , the social network helps people to increase the frequency of talking .
For example , if social networks did not exist , business people would need to meet each other face to face which is time consuming. Even with business that is not as important they might have to do this , and it takes time on travel , which is a wastage .
However , social networks help people to meet and chat much easier , and they can even use video chat and create group chat to chat with multiple parties at the same time .
Nowadays , even some companies conduct online video interviews with their applicants , as it saves time and money .
The social network may also create some negative impacts for people .
The largest negative impact is that due to the online network , some people start to use and rely on the internet every minute .
They take too much time using online social networks and thus do not have time to have their daily meetings with people in their real life .
It not only affects their interpersonal skills but is also bad for people 's health if they spend too much time on social media .
Secondly , social networks may leak certain personal information to the public , as the cyber environment is not perfect and not safe. People may not protect their privacy online effectively and sometimes , some people may use others personal information to deceive .
In conclusion , although there is a safe online environment , spending too much time on the internet could be a negative factor of using social networks .
It provides a convenient environment and improves the frequency of contacting and meeting others .
It also helps people develop their interpersonal skills through online chatting .
Overall , there are more benefits than the negatives .
The world is increasingly becoming " flat '' by all of the social networking websites such as Facebook and Twitter .
We can know what a friend , who is thousands of miles away , ate for lunch through these kinds of social media .
From some points of view , social media has a lot of advantages , including letting us communicate with friends cheaper and more conveniently .
However , its disadvantages also can include a platform to show off and a set the stage for cyber crime .
Social network sites provides us many conveniences .
When we do not hang out with or talk with friends over the phone , we can then learn his of her latest news by scanning the webpage .
It can help us learn more about each other .
It can help people become closer as well .
For example , if you find out through Facebook that one of your friend 's favourite singer is Justin Bieber , you can give him or her Justin Bieber 's new album or concert ticket as a birthday gift .
It will be really sweet and you two will surely become closer .
In addition , social networking sites can help you keep in touch with friends living very far away .
I met some Canadian friends in Egypt .
Without Facebook , we may have lost contact with one another .
However , thanks to facebook , I can still keep in touch with them and find out what they are doing , as if we lived closer to each other .
The disadvantages of social network media are quite undeniable .
Research shows that people will unconsciously hide his or her real thoughts when saying or posting something that will be exposed to the public .
This means that one can not know another person 's real thoughts or feelings by reading things that he or she has posted on social media websites .
Talking with another person in real life about questionable things that they posted on social networking sites could upset them .
In addition , with all those " nice '' guys around on the social network website , one may neglect relationships in real life and just communicate with " friends '' on Facebook .
It is a common scene today to see two people sitting next to each other seldom talk with each other but just look at their cellphones .
This kind of behaviour is not good for people 's psychological health , according to research .
Cyber communication is quite different from face to face communication , and people who depend on cyber communication too much will not get used to real life communication .
Additionally , online relationships do not always succeed when an attempt is made to further the relationship by meeting in real life .
With no close relationships in real life but only cyber friends , one is more likely to feel lonely because the physiological need of human beings for physical contact is not satisfied .
Because of the competition for the most friends or followers , social networking sites have now become a place to show off .
Some people will post pictures of their expensive things or the overseas places of interest they have been on the social network and get a feeling of satisfaction by doing so .
It is mentally unhealthy and may trigger people , especially teenagers , to become shallow .
Last but not the least , with too much personal information on one 's social network page , it may become convenient for criminals to use this information to commit a crime .
Social network sites are like a two sided knife. People can take good advantage of them by avoiding the disadvantages , such as putting too much information on their Facebook page .
The modes of communication have been changing over the years , from letter writing to social networking .
This phenomenon is caused by rapidly changing technology , which has made communication faster than ever before .
Today , social media sites , such as Facebook and Twitter , are relatively common within the todays society ; and , people can communicate with each other , online or offline , on these social networking platforms .
They can even make new friends with similar interests on these platforms , which will then connect them to almost anyone , closely , all over the world .
However , critics may argue that with the existence of social media sites physical human interactions among people is less and they prefer sitting in front of a computer than real interaction .
This essay will discuss about the benefits and down sides of using social media in today 's society .
Currently , social media can break down information faster than any other media .
About 50 % of people learn about breaking news from social media .
This is due to people spending comparatively more time on social networking than reading newpapers .
Furthermore , with the current technology , smartphones are able to get access to social media sites which makes them easier for consumers to use .
Hence , social media has benefited the masses by equipping them with a powerful tool to disseminate information almost immediately to the people around them .
However , critics may argue that not all news disseminated is reliable .
There might be false information or hoaxes that get spread on social media .
For example , in 2012 , there were false rumors on Twitter and Facebook , of fires , shootouts , and caravans of gunmen in a Mexico City suburb .
This had caused panic among the people who had flooded the local police department with numerous phone calls , and even resulted in schools closing temporarily .
The spreading of false information can be a potential psychological threat to anyone , given that social media can disseminate information in a realtively fast speed .
Nevertheless , there are cyber police who try to cover these social networking platforms to prevent these hoaxes spreading .
But there will still be unreliable sources spreading false information on social media sites despite high security to control social networking movement .
Using social media will be able to improve relationships and make new friends , provided that there is mutual trust and mutual understanding between both parties .
Many of the teenagers today claimed that they are able to keep in touch with their friends through social media , regardless of their location .
In the past , people used to write letters to their friends and it would take a long time for them to receive the letter .
But , with the help of technology , people are able to catch up with each other instantaneously .
It will be easier to find new friends who have similar interests or hobbies .
However , in order for people to maintain their relationship , it requires mutual trust and understanding between both parties .
It would not be accurate to judge how one feels based on social media because they may cover up their emotions while on it .
In addition , there is a chance to misunderstand each other as the tone of the other party can not be sense over social media platforms .
This may result in unnecessary conflict between two parties .
As long as there is trust and mutual understandings on social media , it is ideal for people to improve relationships and make new friends .
In conclusion , social media in contemporary society can help one improve relationships and make new friends , as well as efficiently pass on information to many people .
However , sometimes there is a risk of false information and a possiblity of miscommunication .
The advantages of social media will benefit many people as long as the negative aspects of it are carefully handled .
All-in-all , social media is the product of rapid technological advancement , with more to come in future .
Advantages : Social media sites have greatly eased long-distance communication and interaction due to their accessibilities and conveniences .
With a globalized and interconnected world of today , Twitter and Facebook are now the mainstream platforms for social interactions .
With just one touch from any media/electronic device , one can easily interact and communicate with his friends without much hassle .
Thus , a long-distance relationship or friendship can be maintained and keeping in touch with your circle of friends has been made much easier .
By sharing personal photos , personal feelings , experiences , and replies , human interactions are engaged and expanded with ease .
Introverts or those who are too shy to communicate with their friends in real life are now able to do so via social media platforms .
Thus , socialization can occur seamlessly and effectively with the utilization of such social media platforms. Meet-ups and appointments are no longer a barrier for humans to contact and communicate with one another , making human interaction possible at one 's own convenience .
Society will adapt to such phenomena as physical interactions are transformed into cyber interactions .
With the frequent usage of and reliance on social media , a society that socializes through the cyber world will be more advanced and adapted to the highly connected world brought about by the Internet .
This will help society to progress rapidly .
Disadvantages : One of the main concerns of using a social media platform to communicate is credibility .
The certainty of what is being shared or expressed can not be proven physically as media limits this physical interaction , except when using a webcam to chat .
We can not be certain of the reliability or truth of some posts or information we received through the Internet .
We may in actual fact be communicating with a hoax Facebook account of a cyber friend , which we assume to be real but in reality is a fake .
Photos and information retrieved from their profile page may be fabricated to suit their personal agenda .
Without face-to-face human contact , social media restricts actual interaction that can be stimulated through the media .
Although emoticons can be used to show certain emotions , this is nothing like the authentic emotion of your friends when you observe their body language and facial expressions .
The danger of socializing in this manner is the uncertainty that results from a lack of physical interaction .
Since communication is being made through social media instead of meet-ups , the lack of physical interaction has affected human interpersonal behavior .
Lowering a human 's ability to interact with other people can adversely shape one 's behavior .
The lack of exposure to real life interaction with humans will not create the confidence and skills needed for one to interact seamlessly and effectively with others .
Therefore , for an effective and efficient society , there is a need to have a balance of both social media interaction and face-to-face human interaction within its people .
Nowadays , people can even use their phone to read news and everyone can be a first witness of happenings in the world .
People use Twitter to follow the artists or celebrities they love. They can use Facebook to see their friends ' recent activity .
Nevertheless , they still can use their phone to do normal calling and messaging .
The phone serves that purpose well and , when needed , is ably abetted by other devices with Internet access such as PCs , laptops and tablet computers .
It 's clear the Internet 's greatest appeal lies partially in its time-saving ability but is mostly attributable to the ease with which it brings users closer together .
Opponents are quick to point out the downside , however , and their evidence for the inherent disadvantages of social media is impossible to ignore .
Users have to get online somehow and , for that , an electronic device is a must-have .
When social media beckons , a mobile phone ( or some alternative method for accessing the Internet ) is a requirement .
Generally , people need their eyes to look at the display screen of their phone or computer , and fingers to manipulate the corresponding device .
As a result , they will use their eyes and hands to contact and to express their feelings to people near them , which means they have lost the tools they need for face-to-face communication .
This can be easily be seen in restaurants or cafes nowadays .
A family of four having dinner in a restaurant will often not engage in any chatting because they are holding and looking at their display screen with one hand while holding a fork with the other .
A group of friends having high tea in a caf will often not chat as well , because they do not know how to talk without pressing on their display screen .
The children nowadays do not know what a neighborhood game is , all they understand is pressing icons on their screens .
These are some concrete examples of how social media reduces face-to-face human contact .
When people use social media to contact other people , their interpersonal communicating skills will degrade and be lost eventually .
Firstly , they have lost the courage to meet strangers , and even the courage to talk .
Also , they will not have enough experience to communicate with people in person and not be trained in their conversation skills .
As a result , social media helps them do their jobs but indirectly effects their interpersonal skills .
Social media does have some other advantages besides it 's general benefits .
First of all , people save money by using internet to contact others and read news .
A father may be able to make a call to his daughter in another country via social media software , instead of making international calls , which costs a lot to a normal family .
He can even talk to his daughter face-to-face using video chat via internet .
Secondly , people make friends from all over the world and are easily able to see updates of their friends ' recent activity .
A guy who is traveling for months can easily tell all of his friends about his activites .
When one of his friends who is not aware of this can not reach him via telephone , he might be able to learn his whereabouts by using social media .
These are the advantages that can save effort most of the time .
In conclusion , social media benefit people in several ways , but also has its disadvantages .
People should avoid the misuse of social media and use it properly .
With the aid of social media , people bond globally , information flows rapidly , and humans live happily .
All of us in society are living in the technology realm .
Have you ever wondered why we use these tools to connect ourselves with other people ?
It started with the invention of technology , which has evolved tremendously over the past few decades .
In the past , travel by ship was commonplace while today , airplanes are the number one method for traversing the planet .
Communication in decades past required at least enough patience to wait for the postman while nowadays , messages are sent and received electronically and almost instantaneously .
As facts so far have demonstrated , the distances between loved ones are widening with every passing year and the spread shows no sign of slowing down .
It 's easy to understand the reason why ; everyday technology like the modern commercial airliner have made previously impossible feats -- like attending college overseas or pursuing employment on the other side of the globe -- a relatively manageable reality .
For this reason , tools like Twitter and Facebook have become important components of lives lived much larger than in the past .
Nevertheless , everything in life has positive and negative effects .
This is applicable to these social media sites .
The next two paragraphs will be discussing the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our society .
With the help of social media tools , we can stay in contact and keep ourselves up to date with our family and friends even though we are away from them .
Social media sites such as Facebook have allowed us to share our pictures and chat online with our parents while we are overseas .
This approach helps the parents to communicate with their children and see the types of activities their children are involved in while they are overseas .
The social media is beneficial as it connect you and your loved one even though you are separated by the distance .
It might not be able to replace the joy that you have when you are with your family , but it could help to reduce the sadness of being away from them .
As I mentioned in the beginning , there are also disadvantages when using social media tools .
One of them is that it reduces the level of concentration ; especially among the youngsters .
This is because it is everyone 's habit to check his or her Facebook page as their friends will post something new every second .
Thus , you can see that some students will browse Facebook while attending lectures .
This means that the students are not concentrating when they are supposed to be .
As a result , it could affect their lives and studies .
This could then lead to stress , as these students are not able to keep up with their studies because they were distracted .
In my opinion , every individual has to take responsibility for his or her own life by making the right decision .
There are advantages and disadvantages in using social media sites. However , in this case , striking a balance between social media and real life is the most important thing to do .
Nowadays , the use of the social media platforms is commonplace in our lives .
In an increasingly globalized world , such platforms can enhance the complicated links between indivduals in the world .
Thanks to these platforms , people can get to know one another online without having to travel to meet in person for business or personal reasons .
However , it also brings some social changes such as virtual worlds overtaking the real-life world , resulting in negative impacts in individual 's daily lives. Therefore this is becoming a large problem in societies as a whole .
As people spend more and more time on such social media sites , the importance of face-to-face human contact has decreased .
As people feel more confident online where they do not have to face real-life on the spot , they feel more comfortable and thus prefer communicating online .
This results in lack of interpersonal skills in individuals , especially young students as they always have the option to turn their back to the real-life and go online .
This becomes a huge problem when they have no choice but to face things in real life .
Because they are used to interacting with others through an online avatar , they may become unsure of their self-identity and have difficulty interacting with people in real life .
Another problem with social media is that the time and energy invested does n't create a positive return for users .
Social media is addictive because the more a person uses it , the more they seek attention from their friends .
However , the excitement from attention given on social media is extremely short-lived , and thus does not add any value or meaning to the user 's life .
In addition , according to research , it has been proven that Facebook users unknowingly compare their lives with other users ' lives , and so feel more unsatisfied with themselves after using Facebook .
But in truth , most people only post the happiest moments in their lives .
Another aspect of social media that makes users stay is the ability to connect with other people .
Indeed , I myself use Facebook simply because I want to keep contact with certain friends .
However , friendships in the virtual world are superficial and not relevant in real life .
Also , many profit-driven companies have noticed the high traffic on social media sites , and so use them to fish for customers by placing numerous ads .
Furthermore , this also possibly triggers privacy issues as Facebook allows some profit-driven companies to have access to users ' information .
As this happens , users are more and more prone to possible fraud .
Social media sites are at their peak at the moment. However , I believe that when people realize that such sites are not making them better people in real life , they will not indulge in it as much as they do now .
The users will soon realize that they do not need such social media sites to keep in contact with the their friends because if they really need somebody , they will reach him or her no matter what .
We think we are all connected through all sorts of social media , but are we really connected or are we falling apart ?
Social media sites like Facebook and Twitter are born with the intention of connecting people , from around the world .
The idea seems great , and nowadays most people including older generations will have at least one social media platform like Facebook .
The parents are now the " friends '' of their children , and they can now " follow '' their children more closely and on real time .
People post about their random thoughts or daily activities via Twitter and post different kinds of photos on Facebook all to be connected with their friends .
However , as we then tend to spend too much time on this and have significantly reduced in face-to-face human contact , this eventually affects our interpersonal skills .
First and foremost , I would like to share the advantages of using such social media in my daily life .
As a student , I tend to meet lots of people from different background and at different settings .
We may meet only once but we exchange our contact numbers as well as Facebook accounts in order to keep in touch .
Unlike just keeping contact numbers that we may not even call , social media sites like Facebook are a great way for friends from different fields or even from different parts of the world to be connected .
Within clicks , we could check on the friend 's profile and read his/her updates .
On the other hand , we could update our profile by posting on our wall , which our friends can read on their newsfeed .
This allows friends that may not have the time to meet up to still be connected in a way .
Not only that , new friends can also be easily met through such online platforms .
Hence , our social circle is indeed expanding .
Nonetheless , what seems to connect us could become the reason we will fall apart .
Social media 's disadvantage is that it cuts down on human face-to-face contact .
This subsequently leads to the poor interpersonal skills that inhibit the growth of our real social circle .
For example , we send birthday wishes only because Facebook reminds us , " Today is someone 's birthday . ''
We might have forgotten our friend 's birthday .
We used to send cards during festive seasons like Chinese New Year. We would feel so good to write a card and of , course , to receive one through the mail .
Gone were the times of writing , and now we do mass sending online. The receiver may feel less meaning in such online wishes .
As time passed , we may have more " friends '' on the list , but the meaning of friends needs to be redefined .
In a nutshell , every sword has two edges .
The users of social media sites need to strike a balance between the real world versus the virtual one .
We should maximize the benefits of such platforms , but be careful of its impacts on the actual life that we have .
Ultimately , the best way to enhance interpersonal skills is still through face-to-face meetings , but social media sites can be used as tools to supplement it .
Nowadays , use of social media sites is common in society .
I believe 80 percent of people use social media sites .
These sites play a role in connecting people around the world .
It consists of the functions of connecting , sharing , interacting and advertising .
However , there are also some disadvantages to society of social media use .
Therefore , this article is written to explain the pros and cons of using social media in our daily lives .
First , by using social media sites to connect with people , everyone is able to interact and communicate with friends and families - or even strangers - without time and place constraints .
Through social media sites , we can chat with our friends who live in Europe and New Zealand .
There are more than one thousand miles between Singapore and these two countries .
However , we are able to chat with our friends without having to travel to these countries .
It saves a lot of money and time and strengthens our relationships , even though we are located at different places around the world .
Besides that , companies also can use the convenience of social media sites such as Facebook or Skype to facilitate meetings with parties from around the world .
Substantial costs are saved without the need for traveling from one point to another .
With the huge amount of savings , this capital can be utilized in other sectors that benefit the company , thus boosting the company 's profit .
However , there are always two sides to a story .
Some scholars argue that the usage of social media reduces face-to-face connection between humans .
Since ancient times , humans have interacted with others face to face .
Without seeing facial expression , it is easy to misunderstand the intention of speakers .
That is why facial expression is one of the most important elements in social learning .
In addition , it 's a fairly common belief that pervasive use of social media will have a negative impact on writing skills for current and future generations .
Statistics indicate that writing skill will continue to diminish as social media sites consume increasing amounts of users ' time .
It 's likely most people have , like myself , been surprised to find themselves struggling to spell a word they used to know .
Thanks to its effectiveness , the auto correction feature of today 's electronic devices has become a necessity for many , even as the importance of individual writing skill fades .
The ability to write well is a vital tool for anyone wishing to effectively express their thoughts and feelings .
" Privacy , '' societally speaking , is a concept that 's taken center stage over the last several decades .
Every human has their own individual right to privacy .
They are terms that , generally speaking , are met with almost universal agreement .
But behind the scenes , it 's been found that , for a price , major social media outlets regularly funnel user info to companies hungry to have it .
Anything and everything a user chooses to share on social media sites is permanently logged on company servers and utilized for tracking and marketing purposes .
Although if you think there are no laws and that it is your own space to speak and do anything you want , you would be wrong .
You are not only controlled by government laws but also spied on by the government .
In conclusion , everything story has two sides .
It is our responsibility to identify the advantages and disadvantages of social media sites .
To utilize the technology well , we should do our best to not only balance the pros and cons , but also maximize the pros and minimize the cons .
Thus , the new technology will be able to create a prosperous future for our and the next generation .
With the widespread use of advanced technology , social media sites are becoming more and more popular .
Getting connected on social media such as Facebook and Twitter is a main trend as well as a daily habit nowadays .
In this situation , social media use has created both advantages and disadvantages in our daily lives .
On one hand , it is obvious that it offers many advantages to our lives .
Social media affords users the opportunity for immediate contact and instant satisfaction .
Social media devotees , whether at home or at work , both at university and on vacation , can access and interface with friends and family. Time and place are no longer obstacles .
Despite the fact they 're separated by thousands of miles , social media continues to facilitate human communication by faithfully transmitting messages anywhere and at any time .
Even if a phone is impossible -- for whatever reason -- messaging through social media can still occur and contact is maintained .
A percentage of users can manage to remain actively involved with the help of group chat options offered by social media outlets .
Besides , we can make more friends during such interactions when our friends include their friends .
Therefore , the popularity of social media sites have made it more convenient for people to update friends ' statuses and contact friends more frequently .
On the other hand , we need to think about the influences social media have had .
There are still many disadvantages to using social media .
Firstly , interpersonal skills may be affected by the reduction in face-to-face human contact .
While social media brings convenience to people 's life , people are more and more willing to use social media for chatting instead of face-to-face which has a time and place requirement .
People who are not good at public chatting may be more reluctant to talk to people , and their interpersonal skills can never be improved in this situation .
Secondly , people 's over-addiction may avoidably , to some degree , exacerbate social alienation , and this kind of alienation causes some social media users to suffer from the over-dependence of virtual social networking .
More and more networking has been transferred to internet from real life .
This is a potential danger for teenagers who are growing with social changes .
Third , frequent updates boasting of one 's extravagant life-style , which is not an accurate social growing trend .
Lastly , it is easy for people to waste a lot of time using social media .
Again , addiction to using social media is common and may impact their studies and work negatively .
Since we can see both advantages and disadvantages of using social media , this trend of using social media may last for a long time .
Therefore , every time when we use social media , we should take both sides into consideration and try to avoid becoming affected by the disadvantages .
Only by making use of the good and discarding the bad can we make better use of social media .
In the sophisticated era we live in , experts continue to produce inventions that are meant to make life easier .
Geographical borders and transportation limits are not a problem anymore because communication and information technologies have advanced .
The telephone may have been perceived as a big innovation when Alexander Graham Bell first introduced it .
However , since the Internet came into being , the telephone started to give way to social media sites .
The users have many advantages .
Let us take examples from Facebook and Twitter , two of the most famous social media sites .
Through Facebook , peope are able to maintain relationships with their old acquaintances .
This benefit can not be obtained through telephone or mail because people 's telephone numbers and addresses may change from time to time. But on Facebook , people can keep in contact with old friends just by using a name and photo as the identifier .
Facebook is like a combination of message and chatting services , personal profiles , and a sharing and entertainment platform .
social games ) , which allow users to communicate with remote people , but also to update and express themselves while doing so .
Twitter , which has more simplified function compared to Facebook , is more beneficial if used as a medium for information sharing .
Twitter only allow users to give updates that are limited to short sentences , in order to spread the word fast. Only highlighted messages are delivered .
Facebook offers a comprehensive way of sharing , since multiple photos and videos can be uploaded , longer notes can be published , even documents and data can be shared through Facebook .
These advantages also comes in handy , as most of these social media sites are accessible through mobile applications in people 's smartphones .
Despite the luxury that is offered by social media , there are also harmful side effects which people may not realize beforehand .
Research shows that face-to-face meeting frequency among people that are addicted to social media sites has been decreasing .
As a consequence , it affects their interpersonal skills .
People can think while typing and prepare what they want to say , but in face-to-face communication , every word that comes out of your mouth regardless of how well it is arranged is the picture of your personality .
This skill requires practice and can not be done completely through social media .
Imagine a situation where a family is having a dinner together in a restaurant but everybody is busy with their own gadget ; posting pictures on Facebook , updating their status on Twitter , or even chatting with friends .
Social media serves a purpose to bind people in spite of their geographical boundaries , but it does n't mean that surrounding people are neglected .
This is related to the interpersonal skill that is mentioned before if we are used to facing gadget , not facing human being .
Another disadvantage that affects people , is that by only showing selected part of our lives , we build " false image '' in public .
We tend to only share our happy moments in media .
Because of this , other people start to think that our lives are full of happiness with no problems at all .
Other people are then influenced by us , and tend to do the same .
As a result , people think lowly of themselves , which may lead to depression and mental disorders .
It also reduces our sympathy .
This is a serious social problem and affects a lot of people .
As explained above , modern and sophisticated technology does n't always provide an advantage .
There are many disadvantages that people may not be aware of .
Individual discretion and comprehension will enable a person to decide which side they prefer .
The pros and cons should always be weighed before making any decisions .
In today 's world , the lives of many people have been improved by technological advancement .
In most countries , there is an emergence of social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter .
Many people think that social media sites have benefits for the communication between people while others argue that there are several negative impacts for society .
One of the advantages which are carried by these social media sites is that they can connect us more closely than before .
In the past decades , when the social media sites were not yet fully developed , people connected with others who lived far away by using a phone , or even a letter .
However , calling a person by using a phone and writing a person a letter required some cost , and sending a letter to a person who lived far away , especially in villages , took a lot of time .
The use of social media sites has solved these problems .
People connecting through the social media sites do not have to spend money on communication , and their messages take only one or a few seconds to reach their targets .
Therefore , this advantage of social media saves money and time , and also provides convenience for many people .
Moreover , this also provides an alternative way for people to contact those who they have not seen for a very long time , such as friends from primary or secondary school .
When we graduate from a school , we will probably lose contact with some of our friends .
Some of them may have changed their phone numbers and addresses. So , we can not find them through a phone call or a letter .
If you can only reach them by phone or letter , we 're probably not going to be able to find them .
Facebook and Twitter are another good way to make a connection between us and our old friends .
The social media sites serves as a platform for this connection .
Everything that comes with benefits will also have some disadvantages .
On the other hand , social media sites also have a negative impact on people and society .
The advancement of social media sites cause people to rely on them to contact each other rather than talking to each other face to face .
Many people argue that this is the most serious problem caused by social media sites .
The usage of social media sites indirectly causes a reduction in face-to-face human communication in real life , which will in turn cause the lost of interpersonal skills for many people .
As we all know , interpersonal skills are essential for us to be able to communicate our views and ideas to each other .
The loss of interpersonal skills results in the inability for people present their ideas well .
As a result , they will gradually decrease in their ability to compete with each other in society .
In conclusion , social media sites cause both positive and negative consequences for people and society .
As a part of modern society , we should learn to distinguish between good and bad impacts brought by the advancement of technologies. We should also learn to avoid the cons and maximize the benefits of these sites .
With the advancement of technology in recent years , the need to keep in-touch with people and the latest news has become a tremendous demand .
Some of the best known examples would be social media sites like Twitter and Facebook .
With the number of users growing to more than one billion from all over the world , social media sites are clearly playing an important part in our lives .
However , some argue that use of social media results in a reduction in face-to-face human contact , which in turn affects interpersonal skills .
Let 's examine the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily life and society .
First and foremost , all social media sites are free .
All users need is an internet connection and an email account to have a Facebook or Twitter and start their journey in social media .
Secondly , it helps people to keep in-touch with one another .
Finding old friends through Facebook , for example , is much easier than asking people around in real life .
Social media helps to lessen the hassle of geographical distance and brings people closer .
Thirdly , social media sites keep us up-to-date on latest news and updates from almost everywhere in the world , all with a click away on the refresh button .
Last but not least , social media sites also link people together allowing us to create our own groups , pages or sites to share our hobbies , interests and studies .
Hence , it is undeniable that these sites play an important role in our global interconnected world .
However , social media sites also have a second side of negative impact on human .
Undeniably , it becomes more addicting when we spend time busy socializing and interacting virtually .
We spend the majority of our time on sites like Facebook and it affects our daily work productivity and performance .
In corporate world , employers often block social media network to prevent employees from spending their office time on personal leisure .
Using text-messaging language as an informal way of communicating on social media network also is bad for us , long-term .
The more time we spend on these sites , the less time we spend on face-to-face interacting with one another .
Hence , it lessens valuable interaction between humans .
In addition , there are also some false reports and fake IDs that occur on social media sites : people use fake IDs to insult or harass someone , like the case of Heather Chua that occurred recently on Facebook .
These malicious comments often go viral and it creates a strong negative effect on the user in real life , which might lead to an unwilling attitude to interact with others .
In conclusion , everything has its two-sided effect and it depends on how we exploit it .
With current technology , it is true that people are more technology-savvy and want to spend more time interacting with each other through social media ; however , it does not mean that we should neglect face-to-face human interaction .
As more social websites such as Twitter , Facebook , and Weibo have become a part of our lives , people may worry about the younger generation having problems in face-to-face communication skills .
However , I believe that the benefits brought by these online chat rooms tremendously outweigh their repercussions .
Social media enables us to explore the world far , far away without paying expensive airplane tickets and sparing a one-week holiday .
The convenience is beyond description .
With a small smartphone or a computer at school , at work , or at home , we can easily make friends worldwide with a 'click ' : we can also get to know about their life through having conversations with them and reading their blogs , photos and statuses .
Compared to face-to-face interaction , online conversation is easier for strangers .
Since some of the information has already been revealed on the home page , it is also easier to find some common topics to talk about .
Moreover , people usually like to share boldly about their real feelings online taking off their masks from the real world .
This has been indicated in a report done by Boston University in 2012 stating that 80 % of information posted online is true , while a person may lie 3 out of 10 times in real life .
This shows that a facebook friend may know more about you than your close friend who does not have a facebook account .
This is because in the real world we are playing a part , while we have no reason to do that in the online virtual world .
Although sometimes this genuine sharing of information may be inappropriate or even harmful , such as the use of vulgarity and harsh-meaning comments , we can minimize those repercussions through strict regulations of online content .
Another advantage of social media is in aiding the spread of democracy. One of the benefits of social media is that it can promote democracy .
People around the world could easily share their thoughts about their governments. People from different nations can easily exchange ideas about their governments .
That eliminates the incomplete information disadvantage for some remote rural regions where people are less aware of what actually is happening around them. That exchange of ideas overcomes the lack of that can occur in remote rural areas .
One of the examples is the 2012 riots happened in Egypt and Zambia. For example , some people living in Egypt and Zambia in 2012 were unaware of the riots around them .
The idea of searching for democracy is passed from Egyptians to people in Zambia quickly through the use of social media. Through social media , the concept of seeking democracy was quickly passed from people in Egypt to those in Zambia .
As the government controls most of the media .
These social media tools maybe used in their campaign to manipulate the thoughts of the public .
For example , in 2012 general election in Singapore , Dr Tan Chee Keong made use of facebook to spread his campaign videos to the public .
Because of this , social media is still a much fair and transparent online platform for the public to share ideas compared to other traditional medias .
Extensive use of Social media does reduce the time people spend in face-to-face communication .
It is commonly to see in a food court or restaurant a group of people sitting around a table with a cell phone in their hands .
They are too busy with their virtual friends and neglect the feelings of their real-life friends .
I have to say that to err is human .
What we can do is to educate the public about the importance of their friends and teach them to manage their time better .
In conclusion , the use of social media has more advantages than disadvantages in our daily lives .
What we can do is cautiously manage our time spent online and our words used online .
With the regulation of government and relevant authorities , the virtual world would be a better place .
Social media sites ' role in connecting people around the world is undeniable .
Thank to those social media , the communication among people all over the world is possible and can be done with ease .
Apart from the ease of communication despite of the distance , many other advantages such as knowledge sharing and trades can be done through social media as well .
Nevertheless , with those advantages , some disadvantages may appear , such as , reduction in face-to-face human contact , which affects interpersonal skills , privacy issue , as well as some fraudulent actions that can be done through social media .
Twitter , Facebook and Skype are some social media sites which enable us to keep in touch with our friends or family who are in other cities or countries .
Through those sites we are able to talk to them , to know what their activities are and who their friends are , etc. From the surface point of view , it is no doubt that these sites help us to have a better relationship with our relatives in spite of the distance .
The sharing of information can be done faster through social media as well , that is why nowadays many news publishers make their own social media account ; for example , Channel News Asia has a twitter account and will update its followers with headline news .
That shows how news and information can be shared easily through social media .
Furthermore , since many teenagers and young adults are fans of social media , information can reach them easily without their needing to watch or listen to the news reports .
Due to the popularity of social media , many people start to do business via these sites .
More and more advertisements can be found on Facebook , whether it is our friends who sell their products or professional brands selling their products online ; we can buy the product and contact the sellers through those sites , which can be an advantage for us .
However , is it the same when we keep in touch with someone virtually , compared to when we meet them personally ?
I believe many will agree there is a difference in it .
When we write or communicate virtually , we can hide our true feelings since we do not want the other party to judge us .
Sometimes the message of one party can not be delivered properly to the other one since the communication is done through written language , and thus the 'tone ' of the message may be understood differently .
Many people are very brave in telling their opinions online but in real life some of them can be very shy .
This will lead to bad interpersonal skills as well as a problem of trust .
Nowadays we ca n't really trust new people we meet on social media since we can never know whether they are even 'real ' .
Some people use fake identities on media sites to meet more people or even to cheat people .
In addition , privacy issues have become more prevalent nowadays since some people are unaware that they are sharing information that they wanted to keep private .
Therefore , while social media sites undoubtedly provide benefits to our lives , we should be aware of its drawbacks and use it wisely to maximize the benefits while minimizing the disadvantages .
It is a common scene in modern society that almost everyone in public transport is looking at a phone or wearing an earpiece .
Many developed and developing countries have the same picture .
Some say that it is a necessary step for human revolution .
Social media sites like Twitter and Facebook are popular among people who can connect to others from different countries .
It also brings many negative effects , such as loss of face-to-face communicating skills , which are important in their workplace .
This essay will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily life .
One of the significant advantages of using a popular social media site is that people can reach other easily , even if they have n't been in contact for a long time .
In this fast paced and competitive world , people may not able to keep in touch with others .
With the help of social media , people can able to upload their new discoveries and funny scenes and be kept up to date on new information from their friends .
Personally , I am studying overseas , and being busy studying keeps me away from contacting my old friends .
Using a common social media site with my friends helps me know their statuses nowadays .
And , I am able to easily find a common topic when I contact them .
In Singapore , many Malaysian cross the sea to work here .
Many of them are busy in work and are separated from their children .
One of Managers in my work place has the same situation .
After my Manager taught her mother how to use Facebook , she was able to upload video clips of her grandchild .
Therefore , my manager would not miss the moments of her daughter 's growth .
Social media sites are also a very useful tool for people to start a new friendship or relationship .
People get connected to others with similar preferences .
It is easier for people to approach others after knowing this information .
Students can exchange their experiences in a study even when they are in different countries .
People are able to share their culture , or pretty photos online ; therefore others can share the joy with them .
Thus , I believe that social media sites are one of the most useful tools to help people known each other better .
However , social media site is a double-edged sword ; it also brings in negative effects on our daily life .
One of the disadvantages that many people face is that they lose the interest in face-to-face communication .
Many people like to use language to pretend to be someone else , and lose confidence when they talk to each other .
Although not everyone is good at public relationship even without the existence of the social media sites , we can not deny that it do affect some people in their ability of interpersonal skills. Although not everyone is good with public relationships , even without the existence of the social media sites , it can not be denied that the use of these sites inhibits people when they need to deal with others directly .
In conclusion , the shadow always exists when there is light. In conclusion , shadows only exist where there is light .
We should take the advantages of the creatures we create and try to avoid the negative effects. We need to take advantage of the positives of social media , while trying to avoid the negative effects .
Social media sites suppose be a very useful and convenient tool to use and bring people get closer in this globalised world. Social media sites are a very useful and convenient means to bring people closer together in a globalized world .
The use of social media has largely influenced our ways in communicating with one another. The use of social media has greatly influenced our ways of communicating with one another .
People we communicate with online can become real life friends .
Social media has profoundly changed the way we exchange information and our interpersonal relationships .
There are both advantages and disadvantages as a result of this change .
Social media has reshaped the way we communicate with each other .
In real life , we communicate with one another as equal participants .
We share ideas , stories , and forge friendships based on mutual respect .
However , communication on social media is based in large part on " broadcasting and listening '' .
This occurs when we use Facebook to post pictures and statuses .
We are actively " presenting '' facades of our lives to others .
We tend to post pictures where we look our best and statuses that are funny .
We broadcast these facades of ourselves to others .
The images we choose to present are tentatively considered .
The audience is not some specific person , but everyone we might know , or even the entire world .
There is an element of seeking out for attention , rather than expressing one 's true opinion on social networks .
On the other hand , the viewers , are not the listeners .
They are just scrolling through lots of status pages and pictures to see if they think any of them are funny .
It is not the broadcasters themselves they care about , but their content .
This type of communication does not help when it comes to forging interpersonal relationships .
In real life , establishing friendships requires well-rounded understanding and caring for one another .
The latter requires face to face interaction so that our emotions are revealed to each other .
One can not truly understand a person by only stalking his/her facebook page where he/she has carefully choosen what to present .
One can not truly express their emotions to another by texting some = ) signs .
The broadcasting and viewing model is not good for forging relationships .
However , it is good for sharing information .
On social media , everyone is a broadcaster and a viewer .
With my social network account , I seldom read newspapers or go to news websites anymore because I can easily read them from the statuses of my friends .
If I am interested in politics , I can follow some politics newspapers or public figures .
I get news for sales , clothes , and cosmetics from my friends .
If some of my friends have horrible taste in clothes and he/she posts them often , I can simply block him/her off .
Information was circulated .
The most popular information is the most circulated , so I seldom miss it .
Social networks play a role in providing and filtering information .
This saves a lot of time I would otherwise spend reading newspapers or watching TV .
Personally , I feel more at ease on social media sites .
As you can see from the above points of view , I think social media can be used to forge more interest-based friendships .
With the help of social media , I become real life friends with those from online forums whom I share the same interest with .
By learning these common interests we find that we have many things to talk about .
The communication is then more focused on the content of the conversation .
This causes interpersonal skills to become less important , because our goal is not to impress others , but to get the information that we are both interested in .
In conclusion , I think the use of social media has reshaped interpersonal relationships from a more human-based friendship that requires sharing and caring between friends , to a more information-based friendship that requires a mutual interest .
There are advantages and disadvantages in itself , however , whether it is good or bad , we are still not sure .
It is just different .
Advantages and disadvantages of using social media in daily life
People living in the modern world really can not live without the social media sites , like Twitter and Facebook .
Almost all students and young adults have a Facebook or Twitter account .
It is true that social media makes it easier for people to connect conveniently .
However , it seems that , especially for some , sharing some parts of their lives , such as videos and photos on the social media sites really becomes necessary .
An extremely interesting and ironic phenomenon was discovered that a group of friends met and sat around one table , but none of them were really chatting with one another .
Instead , they were all more interested in posting pictures of this " cheerful '' meeting on their social media sites .
Therefore , there is need to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of social media .
Social media enables people from different parts of the world to communicate with one another .
People used to write letters and send postcards to keep in touch with those who lived far away .
It could take a few days or weeks for the recipient to receive the messages .
Nowadays , people can simply sit in front of the computer in their own rooms .
People on the other side will only need a second to receive the message .
Distance and time are no longer problems , which is convenient especially when instant contact is needed .
However , when people become more and more addicted to this convenience and fail to communicate with people who are close to them , their face-to-face interpersonal skills are lost .
Social media provides people with a way of talking and chatting that ca n't be considered real communication .
When one chats on media sites , there is no eye contact or emotional delivery , and the expressions must be typed in using a combination of punctuation marks .
For more convenience , sentences are shortened to three or four simple words such as " lol '' ( which means laughing out loud ) and " asap '' ( which means as soon as possible ) .
People go to great lengths to make their words as short as they can .
While they are communicating with people face-to-face , expressing themselves appropriately becomes a big problem .
Social media also provides people information about people and things that they are interested in .
For example , on Twitter it is exciting to follow people that you adore , like famous movie stars , business men and entrepreneurs .
It makes people feel extremely close to their admirers ' lives and works .
Almost every time , up-to-date news people care about can be easily obtained by refreshing social media sites on smart phones or laptops .
However , after you have registered on those unreliable social media sites , all the information you have filled in can be a weapon against you in the future .
Furthermore , not everyone on social media is honest .
The profile picture provided may not really be the person that user says he or she is .
That might just be because he or she wants to " decorate '' their face .
But there is the possibility that the person on the other side is deceiving you in order to obtain your information .
No pledge of authenticity risks people 's information that is shared on social media sites .
In summation , social media has advantages and disadvantages in people 's daily lives .
It shortens the distance between people from all over the world and makes instant communication possible .
It becomes more convenient to obtain and update information by using social media .
On the contrary , social media makes people lose their ability to communicate effectively in their real lives and makes people risk exposing their privacy to those whose identity can not be verified on the social media sites .
How does social media help change our lives ?
As the development of the technology has occurred , social media has become more and more significant in the world .
Everyone in the world uses it every day to express their feelings or ideas , which helps their friends know them better .
However , it also raises the concerns about whether or not it brings us more benefits or problems .
Although we can connect with friends wherever , it also reduces the chances for face to face conversations , which may affect our interpersonal skills .
Whether there are more pros than cons , becomes a tough question for everyone .
Many people enjoy and participate in social media since they have a closer view of their friends and what is going on in other places .
This is moreso to people out of the country .
To them , social media is the only way they can know everything that happened in their home country and they can show their lives to their loved ones as well .
These days , social media plays an important role in spreading information .
People can easily put their renting information on their Facebook account and wait for a response from others , which brings a huge amount of convenience .
It is quite significant , especially for those young teenagers , since they would rather go to these sites to see the news instead of reading the newspaper every day .
However , there are also a great number of people who oppose this technology .
They worry about the effect on teenagers who are still developing .
They pointed that actually , social media reduces the chance for us to talk to the people around us face to face .
The more time we spend on Facebook , the less time we will have to spend with our friends .
Today , it is quite common to be at party and see that people would prefer looking at their phones and reading all the posts on Facebook if they feel bored .
It makes people worry that if teenagers continue using social media frequently , they will decrease their ability to talk to people .
They feel it will become difficult for them to find any topics to communicate with other people about .
Personally , I strongly agree that social media brings more disadvantages , compared to advantages it gives us .
Although it is useful when we need to use it to let other people know we live a good life , it wastes a lot of time as well .
In another way , if we spend less time wandering on those sites , we may finish a book or do more meaningful things .
We should keep in mind that there are still ways for us to contact with our family or friends .
Everything will be bad if we do n't know how to use them wisely , no matter whether it is really good or not .
It is important for people to know to be cautious about the time spent on social media sites .
As stated above , I strongly believe that if we can use social media wisely rather than abusing it , we will all live a better life .
The advantages and disadvantages of social media
Nowadays , as technology is becoming increasingly advanced , more and more social media sites are showing up in daily life .
You can see people using Facebook or Twitter with their smart phones or ipads on buses or trains .
Some people say that these kinds of modern media may reduce the chance for people to communicate face to face .
This essay will discuss the pros and cons of using social media in modern society .
First of all , social media can make it more convenient for people to make friends and contact each other .
Years ago , before these modern products were available , people used phone calls , e-mails or letters to communicate with or contact those who lived far way .
these methods can be inefficient because it can take a long time to get a response .
However , social media solves these problems well .
People can contact their friends on the internet and get their replies very fast .
The communication is also not limited to words .
People can express themselves through pictures or emotions .
People can also get to know their friends ' state and mood by looking at their posts on line .
Moreover , people can be aware of what is going on in social situations , see the online comments , and share their own opinions on these websites .
These social media networks make people 's lives much more colorful and provide a lot of fun .
However , social media may do some harm to people 's lives .
It does make people spend more time on chatting on the Internet rather than communicating face-to-face , to the extent that interpersonal skills will be badly affected .
Some people spend a lot of time online and forget about their real life .
In my experience , I have met some people who can be very funny and interesting when chatting with them online .
However , they are quite boring when I talk to them in real life .
Teenagers are developing their interpersonal and social skills when they are growing up .
If they spend too much time on social media , it may interfere with the development of these skills .
They may feel uncomfortable when they communicate with people face to face .
Some may share less time with their family , and not know how to express themselves .
Moreover , some values shown on these websites are wrong and will affect teenagers by confusing them .
Some may even do something wrong .
In conclusion , the introduction of social media sites has been a double-edged sword .
It can make our life simpler .
People can promote their friendships and relationships through social media .
It can also make people forget to communicate to their family and friends in real life , which can negatively affect their interpersonal skills .
Overall , the advantages far outweigh its disadvantages .
We need to make the best use of social media and make it a fun way of adding some excitement when life is boring .
And try to bypass the shortcomings .
Remember to frequently send greetings to your friends and family .
It is easy to communicate wherever you are nowadays thanks to the advancement of technology .
Use of social media sites truly connects people .
People can know their friends ' recent looks and the interesting things that happen to people just by checking their Facebook or other social media sites .
It can not be denied that social media truly makes it easier for old friends to keep up with current information and gives them chances to communicate .
However , social media sites reduce face-to-face communication which affects interpersonal skills .
There are advantages and disadvantages of using social media in people 's daily lives .
First , the social media sites can connect people with their friends and parents .
People can express their emotions that they are too shy to express through text and pictures .
For example , on mother 's day , people are too shy to say " I love you '' to their mothers so they can type it on their mother 's facebook page .
Then their mother will understand their child 's emotion and feel warm .
On the other hand , when a teenager is studying in a foreign country , the internet is the only way that he can communicate with his parents and friends .
Therefore , social media is truly good for people .
Also , social media sites do n't only connect people closely to their friends .
People can also learn a lot of information about celebrities , such as President Obama and Bill Gates , on Twitter and Facebook , and study them first-hand .
They can learn how these people succeed , have the chance to talk to them and know these famous peoples thoughts by using social media .
On the other hand , people who need money to cure a disease or who are homeless can get the help they need quickly because people can share the information with people they know and spread the information around the world .
There are also problems with the population of social media .
When people rely on the social media to communicate with their friends and parents , they grow accustom to communicating by typing and not talking .
People even prefer to meet their friends online and gradually reject face-to-face communication .
Social media truly limits the interpersonal skills that people use to connect with friends .
Without true communication people lose the ability to see the difference between true and false .
There are many people on social media with a beautiful image and good content in their pages , however in real life , he or she may not have a job or live poorly .
Teenagers may believe these people and easily be cheated and lose money even their safety .
Social media is not safe which is bad for a teenager 's future development .
Overall , the appearance of social media helps many people in a lot of areas .
However , there are some disadvantages that will affect people to some degree .
Advantages and Disadvantages of Using Social Media in Our Daily life and Society .
Today , with the development of technology and society , social media has become more popular and even more important in our daily life .
We communicate with others using social media , such as Twitter , Facebook and microblogging more and more frequently .
There is no need for people to interact with others outside of there because they chat online , share pictures and funny stories .
People can build a relationship by social media but problems can come out .
People who do not how to interact personally , especially with strangers .
We need to talk about the pros and cons of social media in your daily life .
As for the pros , it is easier to know more about others and contact them .
One advantage is that it is more convenient to contact others by social media .
In the old days , if one wanted to tell important news to another , who lived far away , he need would need to write a letter and that is time consuming .
The long distances and time consuming methods of communicating , made spreading the messages very difficult at that time .
Because of that , people may not contact faraway friends and relatives unless there is something important .
However , now people can contact anyone all over the world who can use a computer at any time , and there is no delay of their messages .
Another advantage is that it is easier to know about others by social media .
If there was no social media , it would be difficult for people to know about strangers .
They may collect information about that person by asking friends , colleagues or family members .
The information collected may not be intact and true .
Unlike today , with the help with social media , people can easily get the information they want just by searching online , and know about what that person does each day .
As for the disadvantages of social media in our daily life , wasting time , causing illness related to sitting long time at the computer , quick-spread of rumor and fake news and , most importantly , making people lose the ability to talk to others face to face confidently .
It is weird that people sit around the table with their faces in their phones and do not talk with each other .
If there is a joke on their facebook page , they may talk to others saying , " hi , look , how ridiculous this is '' , then they laugh together .
Whether it is a party , dinner or just simply a get-together , there always are some people playing with their phones even their family and friends are in front of them .
In conclusion , there are both advantages and disadvantages of using social media in daily life .
People should enjoy the advantages of social media while being aware of the disadvantages and try their best to avoid those disadvantages .
Today 's world is considered to be the era of social media : sites like Facebook and Twitter , for example , are attractively connecting people around the world .
However , some people worry that social networks can affect interpersonal skills , as it reduces face-to-face human contact .
The advantages and disadvantages of using such social media in the society are as follows .
Nobody can deny social media 's advantages , as the benefit it provides in connecting people regardless of nationality , race , culture , and language .
Social media is a trending channel and a suitable mean of communication .
First , social media brings convenience to the world .
It has erased the boundaries of distance and time .
There are no more worries about the time it takes to deliver letters and packages .
Nowadays , thanks to the help of social media , you can contact your family and friends wherever you want with just one click .
You can share photos , videos , and all other meaningful experiences of your life .
More importantly , it is cheap and easy to use social media to do this .
Secondly , social media networks open the door of opportunity for people due to great benefits gained when connecting to others .
A lot of new graduates can find jobs thanks to Facebook and Twitter .
Young people can widen their relationships , meet new friends , and learn wonderful things about many parts of the world .
In the business area , social media is a good tool to use for developing and advertising products and services .
On the other hand , social media also has disadvantages , which have recently created worries in society and made it a controversial phenomenon .
More and more young people tend to live in the social media world a majority of their time and have reduced face-to-face human contact , which can affect interpersonal skills and relationships .
First and foremost , we should realize that the social media world is not always trustworthy and real .
Anyone can easily make up the personality and characteristics they want to portray .
They can be anyone .
Though social media do create relationships , relationships and friendships are only firm and real if people have gone through experiences and communicate through face-to-face interaction .
There is a story of a girl who lived in the social media world every night for eight years .
In a chat room , she created a close relationship with eight people .
She talked to them every night , trusted them and shared her life with them .
Eventually , she discovered that eight people became one as he was using eight different identities to chat with her .
Furthermore , the convenience of social media is also its weakness .
A lot of people use their true information on social media sites , which can lead to crimes and deception .
People can use the information to deceive family and friends to do bad things such as blackmail and theft .
Finally , social media does affect human interpersonal skills when people increase their time spent online , rejecting the chance to interact with others outside of the computer .
Recent research has shown that the more time people spend on social media sites , the less ambitious they become .
As a result , if the situation continues in this unexpected trend , the effects it will cause could be bad for the younger generation .
To put it in a nutshell , everything has its own pros and cons .
This is true of social media networks .
On one hand it is convenient and beneficial in connecting people and developing business , but on the other hand it can damage personal relationships and interpersonal skills .
Social media is only beneficial as long as we know how to use it in a correct and suitable way , with the combination of both social media sites and daily life interaction to develop people 's potential .
