Keeping the Secret of Genetic Testing
What is genetic risk ?
Genetic risk refers to your chance of inheriting a disorder or disease .
People get certain diseases because of genetic changes .
How much a genetic change tells us about your chance of developing a disorder is not always clear .
If your genetic results indicate that you have the gene changes associated with an increased risk of heart disease , it does not mean that you will definitely develop heart disease .
The opposite is also true :
If your genetic results show that you do not have the changes associated with an increased risk of heart disease , it is still possible for you to develop heart disease .
However , for some rare diseases , people who have certain gene changes are guaranteed to develop the disease .
When we are diagonosed with a certain genetic disease , are we supposed to disclose this result to our relatives ?
My answer is no .
On one hand , we do not want this potential danger to cause frightening affects on our families ' lives .
When the people around us know that we have a certain disease , their attitudes may easily change , either by caring for us too much or by staying away from us .
Neither are what we want since most of us just want to live like normal people .
Surrounded by such concerns , it is very likely that we will become distracted worrying about these problems .
It is a concern that will be with us throughout our whole life , because we will never know when the ''potential bomb' ' is going to explode .
On the other hand , if there are ways to help us control or cure a disease , we can go through these processes with the whole family .
For example , if exercising helps prevent a potential disease , we can look for more opportunities for the family to exercise .
We can keep track of all family members ' health conditions
and at the same time , we are prepared for when a member gets the disease .
Here I want to share Forest 's view on this issue .
Although some people feel that an individual who is found to carry the dominant gene for Huntington 's disease has an ethical obligation to disclose this fact to their siblings , there is currently no legal requirement to do so .
In fact , requiring someone to communicate their own genetic risk to family members , who are also at risk , is considered by many to be ethically dubious .

Nothing is absolutely right or wrong .
If a certain disease 's genetic test is very accurate and it is unavoidable and necessary to get treatment it is OK to disclose the result .
Above all , life is more important than secrets .
Genetic risk does carry consequences and should not be taken lightly within the family circle .
After all , what affects one family member may or may not affect another even though the family has a common genetic make up , shared by either of the parents .
In cases where an individual knows of a genetic disorder , disclosing it or otherwise to their relatives is solely a matter of preference within an individual 's moral system .
The issue on the right to know or not is highly debatable ; although there is a genetic risk , one can not be entirely sure who to because the genetic information could possibly result from the families of either parent - their maternal and paternal uncles , aunts or cousins .
This also means that as soon as a person is made aware of their genetic profile , they consequently have information about others .
This knowledge may be relavant to them , and vice versa .
An example that may serve as an illustration is breast cancer .
It is hereditary .
does one who has suffered from this disease keep it a secret from their relatives ?
In retrospect , it is also one 's duty to ensure that they undergo periodic healthchecks on their own .
Sometimes family structures and cultural beliefs can influence the pattern of communication .
Depending on who the genetic risk was discovered in , the son or daughter for example , the parents , who know about the risk , would decide who gets told and who takes precedence in being 'allowed ' to tell .
For example , within a family , regardless of who first recieves the genetic information , parents are seen as having the primary responsibility of passing on information to any offspring , .
In addition , a woman testing positive for BRCA1 would be expected to allow her brother or sister to disclose such information to a niece or nephew rather than do it herself . Although this may be further complicated by an individual 's response to risk information they did not want to know .
Hence , there can also be tension if individuals feel that they can neither pass on the information to the relatives who need to know ( such as nieces and nephews ) nor persuade those with authority ( the parents ) to do so .
The notion of authority also extends 'vertically' .
For example , a grandmother may have more authority to pass on information than an aunt , even if she is not at genetic risk herself and the aunt is .
From a practitioner 's perspective these findings are important because if lay constructs of the family and kinship are social constructs they may not be in line with the geneticist 's view of family relationships , or which blood ( or non-blood ) relatives should be informed and by whom . It is also likely to be dependent on the cultural and ethnic context .
Ultimately , one must bring attention to who will benefit from such information and assist those at risk to make considered decisions about disclosure .
The decision whether to inform at risk relatives greatly depends on their personal morals and how 'direct ' the risk is to them .
People with close blood relationships generally carry some similar genes .
In this case , if one of the family members or close relatives is found to carry a genetic risk , it is better for the patient to tell their close relatives about the issue and let them know about the risks . Their family members are then able to perform some daily exercises in order to prevent the potential disease or go to the hospital and check for the corresponding flaws .
In my opinion , although announcing carrying a genetic risk involves the issue of self privacy , it is necessary for the carrier to be obliged to tell their relatives the issue in order for them to prevent the potential disease .
I agree with this statement to a large extent .
Focusing on the negative side of announcing genetic risks first .
Large numbers of patients with a genetic risk would want to keep it a secret because the genetic risk may indicate an increased chance of carrying a certain disease .
Especially for young people not yet married , if they are known to have a genetic risk , there may be a chance that their child would carry the same risk , but it is not certain .
Therefore , keeping the information a secret from their future spouse would help the relationship .
Secondly , announcing the potential risk could cause family members to fear the issue , although the factor might not be that serious . People would still fear that they might get the potential disease in the future and therefore , go to hospital and do additional checks or take more medicine in order to prevent the disease . This could create unnecessary costs to the family .
Furthermore , announcing a genetic risk could affect the relationships between the relatives as sometimes the relatives may think that if they stay away from the carrier they will have less chance of getting the potential disease .
On the other hand , if the genetic risk is kept a secret , although it may benefit the carrier to a certain extent and help to maintain their privacy , it has a much larger negative impact on the family members and relatives .
Firstly , in the case of marriage , people should be honest and tell their spouses that they may carry a certain genetic risk that may affect their offspring .
It is better to let the other party know the facts than find the baby has a genetic disease after it is born .
It is better for both parties to be honest .
Secondly , genetic diseases have a close relationship with the genes people are born with and their daily habits .
For example , if a carrier is told that they are at risk of developing diabetes .
In this case , the carrier can eat fewer candies and chocolates to prevent the intake of too much sugar , and at the same time , if the carrier informs their relatives , it would be useful for them to know that they may have diabetes in the future because of their related genes . They can perform the same exercise of eating less sugar to prevent the disease .
Otherwise , if their relatives did not know , they could end up with diabetes in the future without any intervention .
In conclusion , I would say the benefits of telling the carrier 's relatives about genetic risks outweigh the costs .
Therefore , it would be better for the carrier to be obliged to inform their relatives , in order to let them know and to prevent the potential disease through daily exercises .
Among all the kinds of different diseases , a large number of disorders are genetic .
Genetic disorders may or may not be hereditary diseases and it is sometimes difficult to find out whether one has these kinds of diseases .
It is a long debated issue whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obliged to tell their relatives that their disease is caused by genetics .
From a legal aspect the answer is no , but from an ethical aspect the answer should be yes .
We ca n't make a law which pushes a carrier with a known genetic risk to tell their relatives about their genetic problem .
It is immoral and impractical .
Firstly , someone who has that kind of disease deserves their privacy .
The protection of privacy is one 's human right .
If a law required someone to tell others ' their secrets especially when they are not willing to do so .
It would be againt their human rights and it would be against the spirit of the law .
The law 's spirit also includes fairness .
What are the basic differences between genetic disorders and other disorders .
It is unfair to create a law which only points to genetic disorders .
In addition , it is impractical to make such a law .
A good law should be clear and easy to execute .
However , there are many problems with asking a carrier to tell their relatives the cause of their diseases .
Firstly , what is the definition of relatives ?
For example , does the carrier only need to tell their direct relatives , like parents , brothers and sisters , or do they also need to tell relatives like their grandmother 's sister 's son 's daughter 's nephew ?
If you say that you only need to tell direct relatives , it would be against the fairness of law .
Other relatives may have the same possibility of getting the disease .
How can a law made by the government exempt this group of people from preparing to face their potetial disease ?
However , from an ethical point of view .
the carrier should feel a responsibility to tell their relatives about their genetic disorder .
By doing this , they may be able to save some of the lives of their relatives .
The carrier with the bad gene may not necessary get the genetic disease , if they can live the corresponding healthy lifestyle before the age that the gene 's function becomes stronger .
A typical example is genetically caused hypertension .
Hypertension can be caused by genetic problems which make it harder for the carrier to digest the fat and salt in the blood .
People usually get this kind of hypertesion after becoming an adult .
However , if they already know they have the gene which may make them have increase the possibilities of getting hypertention .
They can build a daily routine of eating less salt and fat to avoid hypertension .
In a nutshell , our society ca n't push a genetic problem carrier to announce their disease to their relatives but they should be willing to tell their relatives about their genetic problem .
By doing so , less of their loved ones will suffer from the genetic problem .
In the age of rapid technological advancement , a lot of medical breakthroughs are becoming possible .
Genetic testing is possible and available for one to decide to undergo .
It is able to detect illnesses , diseases and even a child 's parentage .
However , it has become a controversial issue as it is a dilemma for a carrier of a known genetic risk deciding whether to inform their relatives .
If the knowledge of the genetic risk is shared between the family and relatives , because there might be a chance of them having it in their blood , they can take necessary precautions to prevent it .
However , , if it is a terminal genetic disease , most of the relatives will be disheartened upon learning this information .
Therefore , some carriers will decide to keep it a secret .
This essay will discuss whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should tell their relatives .
Some say that a genetic risk found in a person should be kept secret because it is considered as personal information which should be kept confidential .
Patients may become depressed after discovering their conditions .
If one has a genetic disease after the test , they might not wish to inform their relatives as they might ended up disheartening their extended family .
Some may wish to keep it to themselves , hoping to ensure that they will not bring any pessimism to their family .
Furthermore , some may wish to avoid becoming a burden on anyone , as seeking medical attention is relatively costly .
Hence , some see it as being considerate when keeping the genetic risk of getting a disease confidential .
On the other hand , others may think that it is considerate to tell their relatives because the latter will have a higher tendency of having the same genetic risk .
Hence , they will be able to seek help from medical specialists to find a cure or take measures to reduce the risk of getting the disease .
Nevertheless , it will depend on the kind of genetic disease , considered in the context of current medical technology .
For example , breast cancer is a genetic disease and it can be cured if it is diagnosed in the early stages .
Hence , with the knowledge of having a genetic risk , the relatives of those with this genetic disease can have a medical check-up , which might save them by diagnosing the cancer at an early stage .
In conclusion , it is considerate to inform the relatives about the risk of getting the same genetic disease .
Although there may be a lot of challenges along the way when seeking medical attention , such as financial issues , everyone should be given the right to know their family 's inherited medical conditions .
However , some may think that it is better for those who are ignorant about it as they will continue leading a happy life .
In addition , some may think that knowing about having a genetic risk of disease will just add to their misery as there is nothing that they can do about it .
All-in-all , it depends on the individual and the nature of the disease , but they should be obliged to inform their relatives if there is a possibility of curing or preventing it .
Genectic testing is a personal decision , with the knowledge that there is a possiblity that one could be a carrier .
Those who are born into families with a history of genetic disease should be allowed to undergo genetic testing , even if there is no risk at all .
Early pre-examination is healthy as it can cast away unwanted doubts and affect the psychological thoughts of those affected .
For a genetic risk carrier , they should be given a choice with regards to informing their relatives .
they should not be forced or obliged to do so , as it may negatively and drastically affect the emotions of the genetic risk carrier .
With regards to the choice given , there must be some rules to regulate and exercise the personal freedom of decision making .
If the genetic risk carrier is a minor or a child , then it is most likely that the decision of informing the relatives should be made with the consent of the patients parents or legal guardians .
These patients are still emotionally volatile and may be unaware of the consequences of genetic disorders due to their young age .
Furthermore the act of informing others without the consent of the parents or the patient themselves could harm the psychological state of the affected family .
Thus , a lot of thought needs to be given to the immediate family as it could cause a stir of unwanted events for the patient or the family members .
Some of the family may feel hurt , with regards to their family pride or reputation , knowing a genetic disorder runs in their family .
However , there should be a sense of responsibility to inform relatives since it is a genetic disorder .
There might be a possibility that the genetic disorder could affect relatives and any other families within the same family tree .
The importance of informing relatives of a genetic disease is vital as it may help to raise awareness and prevent the genetic disorder .
Also , the information will help relatives to make informed decisions and to undergo similar genetic testing to find out about the outcome .
Thus , knowing that a genetic disorder is benign would benifit their emotional thoughts .
If the results turn out to be otherwise , then the family can prepare emotionally and psychologically for the future outcome and aid the relative in making upcoming decisions .
In addition , the genetic risk carrier would be showered with moral and emotional support from their relatives if the risk has been made known to them .
Having the support of relatives is vital as they can reassure the genetic risk carrier that they are not alone in facing the illness . This will certainly provide a morale boost as the whole family will share a common sentiment regarding the future prospect of a genetic disorder which could be inherited by anyone in the family .
Therefore , the decision to inform relatives of a genetic disorder will be dependent on the situation and background of the affected family , with the liberty of choice being given to them when making the decision to inform others .
A person with a disorder , mental or physical , is always easily noticed by their families .
When it comes to genetic issues , it is not that simple anymore .
Genetic disorders are inherited generation by generation , but not all of the offspring show the relevant symptoms .
Sometimes a family with a potential genetic disorder risk may not be able to detect the potential harm inside their bodies , as none of their members show any observable disorder symptoms .
In this case when one of the members happens to feel uncomfortable or abnormal , they should find out whether the disorder in their body is a genetic risk or not .
Afterwards , the carrier will face a serious ethical issue , which is whether to reveal the problem to their relatives or not .
If the disorder symptoms are revealed in a child , the parent will be informed by the medics for sure , then the whole family can be aware of their bodies ' condition .
On the contrary , if the carrier is an adult , who makes their own decision on whether to inform their relatives about the risk , it is more complex .
One may think that if the carrier is a caring person who loves their family more than themselves , there is no doubt that they will tell their family about the issue .
This is true and of course it is the obligation of a family member to protect and take care of their family .
However , think of it another way , if a child in the family knows that he is at risk of being a genetic risk carrier , and the risk might also be inherited by his children in the future , his whole life will be a dilemma .
, They will , of course , consider not having any children after getting married , the same thought applies to the cousins as well .
As a result , the family generation could stop the moment the adult carrier announces their issue .
In China , the older generation , with a traditional cultural background , will always think of having more children and grandchildren , in order to make sure the family lives on and is stronger .
The reason behind this is that after WOWII the population of China decreased dramatically and so the government encouraged people to have more babies .
During that period , if one of the family members displayed genetic disorder symptoms , they would be in an ethical dilenma for sure .
The medical treatment technology during that time was not advanced enough to completely cure them .
They would have to choose whether to protect their family or make their family more prosperous but with a potential generic risk .
And so , they would have chosen not to undergo genetic disorder testing and let the truth be buried forever .
This kind of ethical issue can not be judged by others because they do not understand the position and duty of the carrier in the family .
In conclusion , people should think carefully about the consequences of telling their relatives about their genetic disorder .
It may be an obligation for a carrier to inform their relatives , but it is also an obligation for a family member to continue their family .
Regardless , if the disorder is rarely fatal , or does not cause any inconvenience to the carrier , revealing the truth is always the right thing to do .
In my opinion , the carrier should tell their relatives about it .
One of the reasons why is because a carrier needs mental support to go through this situation .
It would be hard for an individual to deal with the issue on their own .
By telling their family , as well as being supportive , they could possibly help them to find alternative solutions to the problem that they are facing .
Other than that , I believe that the strong bonds we share with our family are the biggest pillar of support to the carrier .
Furthermore , as it is a genetic problem , it would be better for the carrier to inform their family as other family members might experience the same thing .
By making sure that they are aware of this genetic problem , they could have a full check-up as it would be better if they could prevent it from happening to themselves .
I find that it is important to inform the relatives , especially if it is contagious , as the carrier could prevent the disease from spreading out to the society .
For every action there are always pros and cons .
I believe that some carriers choose to not reveal their disease to their family members as they do not want to make their family members worry and feel uncomfortable or even feel ostracized from them .
Furthermore , as it may incur spending a lot of money on a treatment , the carrier might not want to be the burden on their family .
I can understand the feelings of the carrier .
they do not want to be a source of unhappiness to their family .
However , we can never know whether these negative effects will happen when the carrier decides to tell their family about their condition .
In conclusion , personally I feel that it is better for the carrier to inform their family members about the issue .
The carrier should be honest about their feelings and I think that it is the right of the family members to know what is going on in their life .
If something bad happened during the carrier without them having informed their family members , it could be a huge regret in their life leaving without them knowing about it .
On top of that , it is better for them to think about solutions to their problem with their family members as there are more heads thinking about it rather than thinking about it alone and struggling on your own .
In the end , I believe that the support , both mental and monetary , from their family could help the carrier to fight against the genetic disease .
There are lots of cancer patients who were given a second chance to live as a normal person because they had strong mental support from their loved ones .
In my opinion , as long as we keep our minds healthy and strong , we can fight any disease as they come to us when we are fragile and weak .
As technology has been advancing , it has reached the stage were the advancement has triggered ethical dilemmas in relation to the actual use of techonology .
Genetic testing has been made possible ; it has become easy to tell if someone is a carrier of a known genetic risk through genetic testing .
If used for a good purpose , it can prevent unnecessary unhappiness , however , it can also make a situation worse revealing who the carrier is in the family .
The question given is whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obliged to tell their relatives . I think that the carrier should not be obliged to do so because I believe that they have the right not to know .
Firstly , genetic testing is not compulsory .
Of course , some people may do it to make their futures slightly happier , however , people may choose not to go through the test and simply live with the unknown and accept the facts .
If they chooses to live with the uncertainty that the gene holds and are willing to accept it , they could do that . It is something that was 'normal ' to everyone in the past as genetic testing was not possible .
It might be better for them this way .
Some people might say that it is a form of preventing giving birth to disabled children and making them suffer in real-life .
I personally think this is the right reason for going through with the genetic test . It means that a family who can not afford to have a disabled child does not have to give birth to their child and make their entire family suffer .
However , I believe that the carrier has the right to not be obliged to tell anyone but has a responsibility to take actions to prevent any ethical dilemmas .
If the result turned out to be something that the carrier could not accept then it would have been better not to know the truth .
I believe that even the carrier has the right not to know the true facts .
After realizing that they are a carrier , the emotional damage would be hard to bear .
It could possibly cause problems within a family due to the fact that it creates more unhappiness for the family .
Overall , I believe that it depends entirely on the carrier to share the hard facts and face them with their relatives , they have no obligation to tell .
In fact , I strongly believe that the carrier should weigh both the positive and negative consequences of taking the genetic test and take appropriate actions according to the results .
The emotional depression that carriers might get and the sense of guilt could be stronger than expected and can be a burden on their minds for the rest of their lives .
On the other hand , without knowing about a genetic disorder and accepting the facts , the family could stay positive and work together to overcome the disability .
I think the family would stay mentally healthy as it is , without facing the emotional stress .
This debate has been around for years ; should a carrier with a known genetic risk be obliged to inform their relatives .
Any individual at risk from a disorder has the right to undergo genetic testing , but whether the results should be passed on to others , especially close family or relatives , is a topic which is worth discussing .
This is an issue that needs to be addressed as family-related ethical dilemmas are involved .
In this essay , a few arguments will be pointed out in support of view that any carrier of a known genetic risk should tell their relatives .
When we were born , we were surrounded by our family and relatives ; they welcommed us into this new world .
We were crying loudly but we were not alone . It was our family and relatives that brought us up .
Hence , they should be the people we are grateful to and the people we would like to share our joy with .
However , in cases pertaining to health issues or to the extent of a serious disorder , there may seem like no point in sharing however , it more is involved than just the sharing of bad news .
One definitely has the right to disclose their health issues to anyone , but it is also one 's responsibility to inform their family and close relatives .
The case of health issues is related to genetic risk , with the keyword being " genetic " which highlights the risk of passing down the disorder to the next generation .
Therefore , I would agree that it is necessary for a carrier of known genetic risk to tell their relatives in order to avoid any family-related ethical dilemmas that could be brought up in the future .
Despite this some may argue that it is still up to the individual whether to disclose health issue or to keep it to themselves , it is certainly helpful to share with close relatives and have a proper discussion about solutions .
By doing so , one might feel less stressed when facing a disorder risk .
Relatives will certainly be supportive and be more caring towards the carrier of a known genetic risk .
By informing them , the carrier is never alone in fighting a disorder risk .
On top of that , as the genetic risk may be passed down to the next generation it may involve more than just one family .
Therefore , I would agree that it is for it is the necessary to tell the relatives of both parties if one is about to get married and plan on having children .
This would avoid the rise of more family-related ethical dilemmas .
There are more advantages that could support the stance of informing relatives once the results are known after the test is conducted .
In conclusion , in order to avoid family-related ethical dilemmas , it is best for any carrier of a known genetic risk to inform their relatives .
The benefits of doing so outweigh the disadvantages .
More support must be provided , through different means , in order to give carriers better advice when they are trying to decide whether they should inform their relatives .
The decision to undergo genetic testing can only be made by an individual at risk from a disorder .
This is common law in our society .
However , it leads to a new problem ; " should a carrier of a known genetic risk be obliged to tell their relatives ?
" This issue has been discussed for a long time .
However , there is still a difference in point of views among the people .
Thus , I am going to identify the advantages and disadvantages of the issue .
Firstly , I believe most of us will agree with the following sentence : " I would be anxious about a family member if they told me that they were a carrier of a known genetic risk " .
Frequently , the intention of the carriers who do not want to tell their families is to continue their own life without worrying their families .
It is obvious that it is better for one person to be worried than many .
However , many carriers are not strong enough to overcome the challenges by themselves .
With their families ' support , they would have more energy to fight against the demon .
The demon is not easy to defeated and requires a lot of energy and psychological support .
Families give you courage and support , something you can not achieve by yourself .
they are the most essential elements for overcoming the challenges .
Besides that , the consequences of the known genetic risk are so serious that they can not be described .
The consequences may be greater than we can imagine .
Lying in bed for the rest of our lives , or even dying immediately , these are consequences which we can not imagine .
Families are the dearest people in our lives .
Without their concern and support , it is difficult to live in this time .
They play an important role in our lives which can not be substituted .
Critically , a known genetic risk can also affect future generations .
Therefore , it is our responsibility to tell our relatives in order to prevent the occurrence of undesired consequences .
Generally , the clinic or hospital will not tell the carrier 's families without the consent of the carrier .
It is the ethic of staff in hospitals to keep the secrets of any patients .
We can not blame them or say that they are liable for the undesired consequences .
However , hospitals could provide a councilor to advise the carrier about the actions which could be taken .
Therefore , these kinds of circumstances will not be happening again and again .
It is a method that benefits both parties and is a win-win situation .
In conclusion , a carrier of a known genetic risk is encouraged to tell their relatives about the known genetic risk .
However , there may be some special cases which are hard to define .
Thus , advice from hospitals plays the important role for this .
The carrier is responsible for balancing their own interests with the interests of their family and even society .
It is a hard decision to make but if done in the most appropriate way , it will create favourable circumstances for the carrier and their family in the future .
With the risk of having a genetic disorder , many individuals have made the decision to undergo genetic testing .
Due to the fact that the results will be known once the tests are done , each individual who is diagnosed to be a genetic risk carrier faces an ethical problem : Should they warn their relatives about the risks of being a genetic risk carrier .
Or can they choose to keep silent until the next carrier is diagnosed .
In my opinion , a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obliged to tell their relatives , with the support of the following reasons .
First of all , from the angle of human rights , a genetic risk carrier should not be obliged to tell the truth to others .
The diagnosis can be regarded as a matter of privacy to carriers .
They may not want the diagnosis to influence their lives and therefore , may want to keep it a secret and not let others know about it .
This is reasonable since exposing the truth about being a carrier may result in them being discriminated against or being given sympathy by others . These are not positive factors to bring into their lives .
secondly , the relatives of the carrier can also choose to undergo genetic testing regardless of the diagnosis of the carrier .
If people want to check whether they are genetic risk carriers , they can go and consult a doctor about it .
If they do not want to think about it too much and view it as trouble , they can just ignore the possibility .
However , if a diagnosed carrier is obliged to tell their relatives , the relatives will have been forced into knowing their increased chance of being genetic risk carriers .
This explains their unwillingness as they have to accept the truth which may make their future lives miserable .
Many people argue that making it an obligation may help the relatives of the carriers to save their lives because of a larger opportunity for early diagnosis .
However , this is not exactly true when other factors , including psychological influence and social influence , are taken into consideration .
If a relative is told that they may have a higher chance of getting sick , they may be scared about their unknown life ; their partners , spouse and colleagues may choose to leave , and many other situations may occur which would result in the relative 's life being ruined .
On the other hand , as stated above , a person who wants to confirm and is prepared to face the result can choose to undergo the genetic testing individually .
In a nutshell , a carrier of a known genetic risk should have the right to decide whether or not to tell their relatives .
This should be accepted from the point of human rights , the freedom of acceptance of relatives as well as many other social reasons .
Otherwise , making it an obligation would restrict the choices of the carriers and bring a lot of confusion upon their relatives .
For the carrier of a genetic disorder to find out that they are a carrier causes more of a dilemma than getting the disorder .
I agree that a carrier of a known genetic risk is obliged to tell their relatives .
There are four reasons why people do n't have to be shy and should share their problems regarding genetic disorders .
Firstly , the carrier and their family can take precautions , physically by taking actions to reduce the chance of it being inherited by any offspring , and mentally if those actions fail to prevent it from being inherited .
Many syndromes such as Down Syndrome and Taylor Syndrome can be prevented from happening if the mother takes the proper medication and does not consume harmful goods during the pregnancy period .
This information may not be known by the mother if she does n't tell her relatives about her condition .
If more people ( relatives ) who know her problem , then more information can be provided .
If every effort has been made and the children still suffer from the syndrome then the family has to accept this fact and do whatever they can to create a good environment for their children 's development .
This is not the parent 's fault because there are still a chance of the gene being inherited .
So , they have to also prepare mentally .
Secondly , the treatment and medication for genetic diseases cost a lot .
Albinism is one of the examples .
People with albinism have sensitive skin which needs regular treatment .
Unlike people with a higher proportion of skin pigment , people with albinism are prone to sunburn and other skin diseases .
If they do n't treat their bodies well , by using sunglasses or wearing sunscreen outdoors , there are high chances that they will get skin problems which may also lead to cancer .
Once you are diagnosed with cancer , the medication costs are very expensive .
To prevent this bigger problem from happening , it takes a lot of effort to look after your body .
If the carrier does n't tell their relatives , it may be too late to get their support and prepare financially .
Thirdly , some diseases are not noticeable and may lead to serious health problems .
One of these diseases is sickle cell trait .
Usually people are not aware that they carry the sickle cell gene and this may lead to circulatory problems such as blood clotting .
If the parents know that one of them is a carrier and discloses the information to their relatives then they can take their children to undergo genetic testing . They do not need to be shy of it because it is for the sake of their children 's health .
Fourthly , it is important for parents to give children with a genetic disorder a mental boost .
When their children become teenagers , a lot of social problems may arise .
People and friends may often mock their conditions .
A strong mental attitude and conviction must be built from within by their closest ones .
If not their family then who else would be willing to do that ?
It is not a difficult job for the family if they have prepared their minds first by disclosing the information that their children may suffer from a genetic disorder .
In this modern world , technology has improved a lot compared with the last century .
Particularly , in the medical field , there has been great improvements in many of the treatments for many formally incurable diseases . Genetic testing is one of the methods used to diagnose an individual at risk from a genetic disorder .
The medical authorities claim that only the individual who is at risk from a genetic disorder can make the decision to undergo genetic testing .
However , once a test has been conducted and the results are known , a family-related ethical dilemma is born .
The question is whether the carrier of a known genetic risk should tell their relatives .
In my opinion , the carrier of a known genetic risk has to tell their relatives about it .
This is because their relatives have the right to know .
As many people realize , a genetic disorder can affect the carrier 's relatives , that is , if one of the family members is at risk from a genetic disorder it means that the other family members also have almost the equally risk to have it , so this problem should be treated seriously by the family .
It is every family members human right to know what is going on with them .
If they do not even know that they are at risk from a genetic disorder , how can this explain their right ?
For instance , John is informed by his doctor that he is at risk from a genetic disorder but he does not tell his sibling , James , about this .
Although telling James about this is horrible to some extent , he should know what will be likely to happen to him .
It might be beneficial for his future if he is aware of the risk of having this disorder .
The next point is that telling relatives could raise their awareness of having the same genetic disorder , preventing the genetic disorder from affecting them .
Genetic disorders are innate , but the great advances in medical treatment make it possible for humans to either prevent the disorder or reduce the negative effects of the disorder on themselves .
In addition , doctors usually quote the saying , " Prevention is better than cure " ; this gives us an idea that preventing a disorder from happening is far more advantageous than curing it .
Awareness of having a genetic disorder may help in diagnosing the genetic disorder in another person , and therefore , this may make the prevention of a certain disorder possible .
For example , hypertension is partially due to genetic factors , but environmental factors also play an important role .
People who aware of having this disorder can prevent the disorder from happening by adopting a healthy lifestyle , including eating a balanced diet and doing exercise for at least 30 minutes every day .
To sum up , a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obliged to tell their relatives .
It is their human right to know about It , and may also save their lives by preventing the disorder from happening .
Together with the advancement of technology over past decades , medical advancements have progressed exponentially and further enhancements are still constantly being made . This empowers doctors with advance medical knowledge ; doctors are able to diagnose and provide genetic testing for patients to help them prevent and take necessary steps to protect their life . However , once a test has been conducted and the results are known , the question of whether to disclose the results to relatives becomes a challenging issue for both patients and doctors . In my opinion , I feel a strong urge to support the obligation to inform patients ' relatives .
As it is a genetic risk , the patient 's next-of-kin will have a high chance of carrying the risk , informing relatives is important so that the necessary preventative actions can be taken before unforeseen circumstances occur . For example , if you are the only child in your family and unfortunately , you suffer from a genetic disease that genetic trait might be passed on to your next generation if you have a child . By making your family members aware of the situation , this could stop your family from stressing and pressuring you to settle down and have children . However , social and ethical issues like discrimination and privacy are the biggest concerns and potential barriers in forcing patients or doctors to disclose information to patients ' relatives . It challenges confidentiality and privacy principles . Currently , under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ( HIPAA ) in the United States , there is no legal requirement to disclose information to relatives , it is up to the patient to disclose the information to their family members . Disclosing the information to family members early on brings positive reactions and prevention , as in the case of Angelina Jolie . She chose to disclose the information and underwent treatment to reduce the risk of breast cancer significantly to under five percent . I can still recall that her reason for disclosing her own story was because she did not want to live under the shadow of cancer .
However,there are still people who are against the decision of revealing private information . In the case of Alzheimer patients , it is up to the patient to disclose the information . However , research has shown that doctors have tried to influence who , how and whom Alzheimer disease will be disclosed in order to minimise potential negative impact on families members ( Dementia Today , 2012 ) . There are associations that provide help to Alzheimer patients like Alzheimer 's Association ( Alzheimer 's Association,1980 ) . However , there are still thousands of genetic risk diseases out there that may not be receiving help and support from everyone . Recieving immediate understanding and support from family members is very helpful for patients during this difficult time .
In conclusion , the state should pass a legal bill in order to provide information to doctors such as in which situations they should opt to reveal to relatives information about the genetic disease and in which situations it is the patient 's decision . In addition , the state should also encourage the creation of assistance schemes to provide necessary help for needy patients and to encourage them to open up for their own benefit and the benefit of family members . Although this view may face challenges from social and ethical issues , in the long term , with the appropriate encouragement and aid from the government , more individuals would accept it and take appropriate measures to protect their own health the health of their loved ones .
Nowadays , studies in the genetic field have advanced further and further due to the high-velocity of technological advancement .
Not long ago , the human genome project sponsored by several large multinational corporations ( MNCs ) was started .
In comparison , in the field of genetic testing , which enables people to be aware of the risk of a possible genetic disorder , the technology is already very mature , therefore , an even more popular topic has arisen .
While most people agree that each individual has their own right to decide whether to undergo a genetic test or not , they have different stances on whether it is the patient 's responsibility or choice to share the result with their relatives .
In my opinion , patients who are carriers of a known genetic risk should share the truth with their family members .
Admittedly , it is a social obligation to be responsible for the lives of other people .
To the whole of society , it is a duty .
Take H1N1 as an example , everybody in Singapore including students at school , travellers at Changi Airport , workers in the office and passengers on the street are forced by law to take their temperature and to report the results to the relevant government authority in charge .
To those family members who care about them , it is also a moral obligation .
How can they not tell their loved ones who they really are and put their loved ones in danger ?
The basis of a family is that everyone trusts and loves each other without doubts .
Without trust and love , there is no difference between a family and a bunch of strangers living together .
Hence , it is essential for them to tell their family members about the risk of their genetic disorder both as a social responsibility and as a way to conserve the basis of family .
Moreover , telling their family members the truth is the fastest and easiest way of getting their support .
Without the support of loved ones , patients ' lives are no better than death .
Family members , as one of the closest groups of people from whom one can be comforted , are a crucial factor in successfully getting over any possible troubles caused by a genetic disorder .
A study by New York University in 2010 showed that patients with family members around generally recovered 2-4 days faster than those taken care of by professional nurses .
Even for those patients with terminal diseases , the duration of their survival was 30 % longer with family support .
Some people may say that telling the truth may result in unnecessary doubts and panics which could endanger the family harmony .
While every family needs to go through troublesome situations , the more troubles a family goes through together , the greater the bond established between the family members as well as the amount of trust , love and understanding .
Hence , for a family in which every member truly believes in each other and loves each other , all these troubles will just make them stronger .
Just as the lyrics of Kelly Clarkson say , what does n't kill you makes you stronger .
Being in an Asian society where genetic testing is not common practice , I do think that it is the choice of the patient whether they want to tell their relatives about their disease .
The courage to undergo genetic testing and inform relatives about the risk may result in people being judgmental when actually it is just a risk and not a confirmed case .
Furthermore , since it is their genes that are affected , they have the right to decide who they want to share the information with .
Nevertheless , while I feel that a carrier should not be obliged to tell their relatives about their genetic risk , I would like to suggest that the person should at least share the information with their potential partner ( husband or wife ) since the individual 's genetic risk may affect their future children .
Many people in our society are not well informed about genetic diseases and many of them will most likely judge or at least discriminate against those who have genetic diseases because they feel that the patients are abnormal or 'weird' .
This is because many relate genetic diseases to those such as Bubble-Boy disease , Autism and Down-syndrome .
In these diseases , many who are affected do actually have different physical characteristics compared to those without a genetic disease .
While we know that we should not discriminate against them based on their limitations , many people still do it with or without realizing it .
In this particular case , we are discussing whether a person should tell their relatives about them being at risk of a particular genetic disease .
It is normal for people to demand fair and similar treatment to others and , therefore , it is normal for people to try to keep some of their secrets or personal issues to themselves in case people judge them or treat them differently . Many people really love to hear what they want to hear and , therefore , they may just ignore the word 'risk ' and assume that the person has suffered from the disease .
To prevent that from happening , I feel that it is up to the person to decide whether they want to share the information with their family since their family may either be paranoid or judge them and act differently .
Especially when it is just a risk , the option is really theirs since they are not an actual sufferer .
There may be some people who say that it is necessary to tell family members about the risk because some of them may be affected . While I do think that they have a point , how well you can trust your family regarding this issue may also be a factor .
Maybe we can trust our immediate family members but can we really trust all our other relatives ?
Furthermore , since genetic risk and genetic diseases are very personal cases , it is up to the person to tell their relatives about it .
However , as I said earlier , it is better for the person to at least tell their future partner about the potential risk since the genetic risk may affect their children .
This information needs to be at least acknowledged by the other party before they make the decision to get married and have children .
There may be a possibility that both the husband and wife are carriers and , therefore , they should not have a child because their child may not be able to survive after they are born .
In a less extreme case , the child may be disabled .
The information plays a role in family planning , therefore , although no one is obliged to tell anyone about their genetic risk , they should be encouraged to tell their future partner .
In conclusion , whether or not the carrier wants to tell their relatives about their genetic risk , the choice is theirs because they are their own genes and they have the full right of it .
They may have different considerations other than people judging them or making their family worry for nothing when thinking about whether they should tell their relatives . No matter what choice they make , we need to respect it ; we have no right to say that they must tell their relatives about it .
We all know that life is priceless and that we have no right to judge a person 's death .
With the improvements of technology , a genetic risk can be detected within a new life .
Genetic refers to the chance of inheriting a disorder or disease .
Therefore , an entirely new dilemma is born : should the carrier of a known genetic risk be obliged to tell their relatives ?
This essay will discuss the reasons why the relatives should be informed that their children may have a genetic risk .
One of the reasons why parents should be informed is because they have to decide whether they are capable of raising a child with a genetic risk .
A child with a genetic risk may not have the ability to work or build a family with others and most of the time they are not accepted by the majority .
They may not be able to enjoy the things a normal people can enjoy .
This competitive world is cruel to those who are not able to survive .
Parents and relatives have to work for longer than expected and endlessly to look after their child if they are not able to look after themselves .
The situation may become worst if the child has a disease like cancer or heart disease , which would mean that parents would have the heavy burden of medication fees .
Not only the child but also the entirely family would suffer .
It is still early for parents to decide whether they can look after a new life that is not able to work and may suffer pain for their entire life .
Another reason why parents should know if the baby they have is the carrier of a genetic risk is for their nation 's good .
There are always newspaper reports informing us that a new born baby has been abandoned at the hospital after the parents realised that their baby has a disease that needs a huge amount of money to treat .
In countries like Singapore they are short of manpower to contribute to the nation .
However , every year the government has to spend a lot in order to help the disabled for example , subsidizing medical costs and building special schools in order to educate them .
Without the increasing numbers of disabled people in the nation , the government could concentrate on developing other areas like the military and education .
As citizens of a nation , they have a responsibility to support their country in many ways .
Moreover , in the world we live in today , many miscarriages happen in hospital every day .
It is easier for people to accept it morally .
Therefore , I believe the parents have the right to know about the health of their child .
Many people may support the theory that everybody has the right to enjoy the world , especially religious people .
However , the problem is , will people really enjoy their lives if they have to stay in hospital everyday with all the needles and endless pain ?
Parents know what is best for their children , thus they will make the right decision after they have be informed .
Also , human beings should improve the medical field in order to prevent these tragedies happening .
I think the carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obliged to tell their relatives .
Genetic testing is a personal choice .
One should have full control of their results and it should be their right to decide whether or not to disclose it to some one else .
As far as I am concerned , when a couple decide to have babies , they are going to run a few test to see whether they have any genetic diseases .
These results are disclosed to the husband and wife .
This is not the case I am talking about here .
The most obvious reason stated by those who argue for this opinion is that the relatives of the carrier are at a higher risk of carrying these diseases .
They have the right to know whether they are at risk .
Also , telling them the result would allow them to greatly reduce the cost of multiple testing .
They can also take immediate measures to reduce the possibility of getting the disease .
If a person has disease C that might be a result of gene A
he could take a test and find out that he has the gene AA .
This means that both of his parents have gene A and they are both at risk of having disease C ; they could save the cost of runing two separate tests to see whether they are at risk of having disease C. If he takes a test and finds that he has the gene Aa .
This means that one of his parents has gene A and the cost of one test could be saved .
His relatives can then take measures , if this disease can be prevented , to stop this disease from taking over their lives .
However , this can also be achieved from personal choice .
One can choose to tell their relatives if they are at risk .
Most people care about their relatives , if there are no serious consequences of telling them , I assume most of them would tell their relatives to be careful .
They might also choose to hint or encourage their relatives to run a gene test if they are concerned about the negative consequences that may occur when they disclose their genetic results .
There are possible negative consequences that people might face if they disclose their genetic results to their relative .
If a person is obliged to tell their relatives , they might be discriminated against by those who do not carry the gene .
They might even be advised not to get married or have children .
For example , if an unmarried person has gene Aa and gene Aa is sufficient for a very serious disease .
After they takes the test and are obliged to tell their relatives , everyone will know that they are a carrier .
So all the married couples will take a test and find they are not carriers.They might subconsciously see him as different and worry that he will find a wife who carries the gene as well .
Thirdly , it is hard to define relatives .
If a gene runs in the family and one of the family members tests positive , who does he need to tell .
If it is a big family , is he obliged to tell everyone ?
Spouses usually have very close relationships , if person A tells his family that he has this gene , his uncle C knows and tells his wife D that he needs to run a test because his cousin has a disease .
However wife D is not even at risk of having this disease .
Then wife D might tell her mother , who likes to gossip on her way to the theatre .
In less than a week half of the town knows person A has a genetic risk , and that his family might also be at risk .
Then nobody wants to marry A , or his relatives .
This is the potential consequence if one does not have full control of their results , especially when the party that he is obliged to disclose his information to is potentially a large group .
In conclusion , the carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obliged to tell their relatives .
The carrier of a known genetic risk should be obliged to tell their relatives
Nowadays , people not only pursue comforts in their own lives but also for better development of their following generations .
Since technology in modern society has become so advanced , it is now possible for people to make the decision to take a genetic test so as to be clear whether or not they carry a genetic risk which could affect their next generation .
The debated question , an ethical dilemma , is , are people responsible for telling their relatives that they carry a known genetic risk ?
In my opinion , the responsibility of telling family and relatives is quite obvious .
There are two basic reasons .
The first one is the importance of being responsible for your wellbeing and the health of your relatives and the second one is being responsible for your future generations .
Informing your relatives and families about your genetic risk is good for your wellbeing and the health of your relatives .
Because if you carry a genetic risk , then there is a greater possibility that your relatives , like parents or siblings , are carrying the same genetic risk as well .
The genetic risk that you carry may or may not affect your health and put you in danger .
If you have n't undergone genetic testing , it 's just chance and fate what will happen to both you and your relatives .
However , if you have undergone genetic testing and know that you are a carrier , you are responsible for your whole family .
Even though you can not eliminate the risk completely , you can at least try to be alert in order to avoid getting the disease .
As for those in your family who are most likely to be affected , they can go to the hospital to get checked regularly .
Therefore , telling the families and the relatives to be prepared for fighting the disease and even preventing them from getting the disease is your responsibility .
Furthermore , you are also responsible for telling your next generations the truth that you are the carrier of a genetic risk .
If your wife is not aware of the truth and gives birth to a baby , it may be possible that your child carries the same genetic risk as well .
Being the parent , you are responsible for your future generations , since you allowed the genetic risk to be passed on from generation to generation when you were aware of it .
However , if you tell your wife and relatives the truth , you offer them a choice about whether to have children or not .
If you still decide to have a baby , since technology has been developing and advancing , it might be possible that in the future the process of altering genes will be perfected and widely used . You can then choose to give birth to babies and give them a brighter future .
This is the responsibility of being a parent .
And in my opinion , this seems to be the main purpose of undergoing genetic testing in the first place .
In conclusion , once you have undergone genetic testing and are aware of carrying specific genetic risk , there is a responsibility to your relatives , yourself , and your future generations to tell them the truth .
To tell or not to tell
Consider the case , we decide to undergo genetic testing and have been told the results .
We have found that we are actually a genetic risk carrier .
It then becomes troublesome deciding whether we need to tell our relatives who may carry this genetic risk as well .
There are really a lot of things we need to consider .
Every choice we make may have a huge impact on their whole lives .
As a result , what should we do ?
Tell them or keep it a secret until we die ?
Many people feel that we should tell our relatives since we really care about their health status .
For example , diabetes is a kind of genetic disease .
Once we find we are carrying this genetic risk , it is better for us to tell our family members because they may carry it as well .
If we tell them , they can start paying more attention to their daily habits , like eating less sugary foods , and remain positive .
It is important for young people .
The earlier we tell them , the better the habits they will develop and improve on for the rest of their lives .
What 's more they may undergo genetic testing as well to see whether they are carrying it or not which is also better for them .
However , some people may argue that why we want to interfere with their lives ?
Sometimes it is extremely hard for them to accept the news especially if they find out that they or their descendants may have a severe disease like blood disease which is untreatable .
Imagine you are living like a normal person and suddenly , one day , your relative comes and tells you that actually there is a possibility that you may encounter a disease in the future , what kind of feelings are you going to have ?
It may affect our daily lives and we may think about it every day .
We may become so anxious that we can not focus on anything .
At the same time , there is also a chance that the genetic test results are not correct which would mean they have actually wasted their lives worrying about this , so actually we would have brought them trouble .
Personally I feel that we should still take it as our responsibility to tell them about the situation .
Since it will really affect their lives . What we should do is try to make it a positive thing .
We can not let it go .
We should know that although we may affect their lives , we can still let them make correct choices in the future .
It is only after we tell them that they will start paying attention to their health .
They can consider whether to give birth to a new baby because of this genetic problem and they will start finding ways of trying to avoid their baby carrying this genetic risk as well .
They always have a choice about whether to undergo genetic testing or not .
Maybe after we tell them , they will go for it and find out more about themselves .
I know it could have a huge impact on them , but they are our loved ones , we need to tell them and help them .
A genetic risk carrier should be obliged to tell
Genetic testing is conducted when an individual is at risk of a possible disease .
Once the test is completed , whether the results should be open to their relatives has caused an extensive social controversy .
Some say it is a kind of invasion of privacy and the carrier should be protected .
They have the right not to tell anyone .
However , in my opinion , it is the obligation of the carrier of a known genetic risk to tell their relatives about their actual situation .
This essay will illustrate this with two ways .
First of all , it can alert the family members of the patient and make them aware of the possible disease that they may also have .
As we all know , genetic risk carriers are likely to pass on their genetics to their family members .
Once one person in the family is found to carry a genetic risk , other members in their family may also carry the risk of disease .
Some diseases may not show symptoms until the carrier is a certain age .
Therefore , telling the relatives about the situation may avoid a lot of trouble and save a lot of time for proper treatment .
Sometimes lives may even be saved if people are told early and can carry out timely treatment .
So to consider other family members , the relatives should be informed .
Secondly , They can avoid the genetic disease being passed to the next generation if they intend on having babies .
They should let their spouse know about their situation before marriage .
They need to ask for the doctor 's advice before planning to have a baby .
Some genes will only pass to boys and not girls , some are on the contrary .
If the carrier refuses to tell the truth to their spouse , another life may be at risk of inheriting the genetic disease .
I noticed a true story in a newspaper years ago .
A couple in China had a 5 year old son .
Their son unfortunately fell ill and he was diagnosed with a kind of genetic disease that was very serious .
They were told that the wife 's family carried a polygenetic disorder that could only be passed to boys and not girls .
Therefore , their son inherited the genetic disease .
However , the wife had actually already known about the polygenetic disorder before the marriage and she did not tell her husband .
The son died after one year of treatment and the couple got divorced soon after that .
If the wife had not hidden the truth and asked for the doctor 's advice before they had the baby , this tragedy would not have happened .
In a nutshell , the carrier of a known genetic risk has the responsibility of telling their relatives .
On the one hand , it will inform members of the carrier 's family about the possible disease they may have and allow them to perform treatments in time if possible .
On the other hand , they may pass the disease onto the next generation if the carrier hides the truth .
Nowadays , with the advancement of technology , it is easy to undergo genetic testing .
We can not deny that genetic testing really helps people facing a disorder problem .
However , I think that genetic information is personal and this privacy should be protected by the law .
Therefore , I think a known genetic risk carrier should not be obliged to tell their family or relatives .
There are three reasons as follows .
Firstly , information concerning genetics is something personal which is as private as people 's bank card details .
Other people should not be told without the person 's permission even if they are their family or relatives .
The government should set a law to protect this kind of privacy .
Once people 's genetic information is told to other people .
They will know about the person 's potential disabled disease or other bad things .
They may set a bias on this person or even abandon them .
People do not have the ability to choose their genes , they should not be thought badly of because of their bad genes .
So I think whatever their genetic are or whether their genes match their parents , they should not have to tell anyone even their family or relatives .
Secondly , the carrier of a known genetic risk may destroy the peace within their family and even damage the relationship between children and their parents .
Once their family or relatives know that the person does not have the relation with them .
However happy they were before , barriers would appear which would truly destroy the family gradually .
The relationship between parents and their children should not be tested solely in genetic way ; it is something much deeper and tighter .
Parents give knowledge and love to their children , meanwhile they feel happy in the company of their children .
Children rely on their parents to live .
When they grow up , they take care of their old parents and thanks them for their dedication .
The relationship between parents and children is based on love and dedication .
Nobody wants to see the scene of a broken family caused by the carrier of a known genetic risk .
Therefore , I think a known genetic risk carrier should not be obliged to tell their family or relatives without the person 's permission .
Finally , the technology of genetic testing is not very mature at the moment .
There also exists a possibility of false positives .
If false positives are found by the doctor , the family and their children may be sad and struggle for their whole lives .
Therefore I think a known genetic risk carrier should not be obliged to tell their family or relatives .
Therefore , considering people 's privacy and the existence of wrong testing , for the peace of the family , I support that a known genetic risk carrier should not be obliged to tell their family or relatives without the person 's permission .
A Carrier of a Known Genetic Risk Should be obliged to Tell their Relatives
With the development of medical technology , more and more illnesses are discovered to be related to genes .
People will know if they carry a disease in their genes after they have taken a genetic test .
If there is no problem , that is wonderful .
However , not everybody is so lucky that they can make sure they do not carry any disease genes .
Therefore , once people find they carry a disease in their genes , they should be responsible for telling their relatives , or at least their family members .
It may be awkward and embarrasing for a person to tell their relatives that they are a carrier of a known genetic risk .
But they are all from one family and share the same forefather , therefore , of course they share the same genes in some part .
Therefore , there is nothing to be shy about or afraid of .
If the person tells their relatives that They carry a disease in their genes , their relatives can go to hospital to check whether they also have a disease in their genes .
The relatives can then prepare themselves to prevent the disease from occurring .
They can also prevent the disease from being passed to their offspring .
If their relatives carry that disease in their genes , they can share their experiences with them and give them some help , they can also teach them how to communicate with others about this issue .
If they get married , they must tell their partner that they carry a diseased gene .
Then they can have a healthy baby with the help of doctors .
If they hold back the genetic risk , they may have an unhealthy baby and cause the death of their baby or the end of their marriage .
I watched a story on TV .
A couple did not have a child for a long time after their marriage , their parents were anxious about this and asked them to go to hospital to check what the problem was .
After they came back from the hospital , the man told his parents that the problem was that he carried a disease in his genes so they could not have a baby in their life time .
The woman did not know the test results , but she overheard the talk and decided to divorce her husband .
After she got the divorce certificate , the man showed her the test report ; it said that the woman carried the diseased gene not the man .
At that time , the woman knew how much her husband loved her but she ruined her happiness .
Tears proved nothing .
People can not avoid carrying the diseased genes which they are born with .
However , they can avoid the diseased genes being inherited to their children .
By telling their relatives that they have a risk of carrying the diseased gene they can make their family members ' bonds stronger , many risks and conflicts can also be avoided .
Genetic testing has become a beneficial way of predicting and protecting individuals at risk from a disorder .
However , this brings up a family-related ethical dilemma ; is it right to tell a carrier 's family once the test has been conducted and the results are known .
I am more inclined to believe that their relatives have the right to know the result .
The answer is simply that everyone , especially our families , has the right to know the truth .
Although it is said that genetic testing involves emotional and social risks due to the test results , while the potential negative impacts of the risk still exist , the consequences could be significant if other members of our family do not know .
They would be unable to find suitable methods of protecting themselves and preparing emotionally .
Taking Angeline Jolie as an example , she is famous but she still revealed the truth about her genetic testing of her breast cancer risk .
Nothing is that bad if you know how to look on the bright side with hope .
People may feel angry , depressed , or even guilty about their results .
In some cases , carriers can suffer from tension within a family because the results also relate to the risks of the others .
However , I believe this is just a normal reaction to this situation .
In addition , it may be possible in some cases that the carriers and their families will face specific discrimination in employment and their social lives . How will people face more dramatic tradgedies such as sickness or death if they can not even overcome this harsh situation .
Life is difficult but people can not blame it for being unfair .
It is just because you are not strong enough to overcome the hard times .
Furthermore , living with a secret is not a good sensation , especially if the situations of other relatives become worse , you would feel guilty and depressed .
Moreover , the truth can not be hidden forever and when it is revealed , it will be more shocking and upsetting .
therefore , it is in the interests of the carriers and their relatives to disclose the genetic test results .
Last but not least , although genetic testing is a personal matter , telling the results to your family can improve and develop understanding and sympathy towards each other as well as promote awareness and take care of everyone 's health .
This plays an important role in the possibility of relatives overcoming discrimination from society and anxiety about the risks .
To put it in a nutshell , I believe that people should be obliged to tell their relatives about their genetic test results for the good of their health .
It may be very difficult for them but it is necessary for the carriers and their family .
In addition , emotional preparation and the way you explain your genetic condition are also important so that you can convey the correct information to your family and relatives and if necessary guide them if they wish to undergo similar genetic tests .
The Impact Of Social Media
Social media plays an important role in our lives today .
It is almost imposible for us to stay away from it .
I joined Facebook one year ago,when I had just arrived singapore .
Now I have over 500 friends on Facebook and bury myself in hundreds of feeds every day .
We know each others ' status , changes and so on through social media .
For example , if we changed our contact number , we would not send an SMS to each individual any longer .
Instead , we would post a status and tag our friends to inform them about this kind of change .
If you are not on it , you will just get lost .
In certain aspects , social media has brought us quite a lot of convenience .
It is becoming even more convenient than talking on the phone because it is free .
We can discuss anything we like and we have more personal space . Our friends can also recieve more information about what we are doing and what we like .
We also get the chance to talk to public figures like popular stars and find out more about their lives .
In China , a lot of government organizations have open blogs for communicating with people , for example , firefighters , police stations and so on .
Socia media allows them to explain to or inform people about what is going on .
And actually lots of rescues are completed with the help of social media , for example , looking for people who are lost and so on .
With more convenient human communication , the relationship between the government and the people has been greatly improved .
What 's more , a variety of cultures can be shown to us through social media .
We can learn more about news and culture through social media .
From this scope , social media has shortened the distance between us .
However , we get fewer chances and it is less importance to talk face to face since social media is so convenient , advanced and interesting .
Even when we do gather together more people find themselves having fewer topics to talk about than before and choose to search through social media again .
When we are far away , social media makes it seem as if we are infront of each other ; sometimes when we are by each others ' side , we seem to be further apart .
This kind of feeling makes people 's relationships unstable , less secure and less reliable than before .
Besides , there are more people showing their pictures of yummy food or travelling experiences .
To some extent , this makes our life more luxry and blundering .
For myself , I long to go to some places after I see the beautiful pictures taken by my friends .
Sometimes I can not even sleep because of the excitement .
Social media makes our life patterns so fast and leaves us less time to think about our life .
Social media is becoming more important and we need to think of more ways to make it better and better .
Interpersonal skills , like any other skills , require practice .
Besides that , these skills require time to develop and adapt .
The burgeoning of social media is definitely enjoying a stint ; but like all good things , it is better to use it in moderation .
Convenience and efficiency are two very important advantages of social media .
Millions of users are connected at any one time and any information can be readily available for their perusal .
This improves connectivity between users .
For example , one is able to send notifications and other information , that used to have to send in hardcopy , over the web and the process takes seconds .
The receipent,will then receive the information almost immediately depending on the quality of their network .
This covenience can be percieved as almost being in realtime .
Next , communication has also greatly improved .
In the past , communication was done through many methods such as telegrams , snail mail and poor-quality voice calls .
With the welcoming of applications such as Skype and Facetime , any individual can phase out most of the old communication methods .
Aside from hearing the voice , a webcamera can also be attached to emulate a 'real ' interaction with expressions and gestures .
Communication could have taken a different turn without the easily available social media .
However , it is good practice to not intesively use social media all the time .
Intimate interaction is greatly lacking in social media , particularly touch .
Having to meet and interact while talking allows one to be closer to the recepient .
It involves a level of dynamic interaction which utilises the motor , thinking and verbal cortexes of the mind in coordination .
Unlike the use of social media , where most of the interaction is done by thinking and typing .
As a result , one does not train the necessary parts for the skills required for proper interpersonal relations .
It is also entirely incorrect to blame social media alone for the lack of interpersonal skills .
Howard Garner studied the effect of multiple intelligences amongst people and stated that interpersonal intelligence is a form of skills on its own - some have it , some do not .
Howard Garner proposed that the different intelligences can be charted , in accordance of utilising tests , and ranked .
Fundamentally , those who scored a lower ranking for interpersonal skills were more likely to stumble when this skill was needed .
Although social media is not necessarily bad , it must be used accordingly - for work , family , friends .
These types of use must also be taken note of - informing , interacting and discussing .
The space of separation between the parties must also be looked at .
For people who are living very far from one another , the intensive use of social media is justified .
For those who live within the same community , they should at least meet up and not use social media as the primary source of communcation between each other .
At the same time , this improves interpersonal skills , through the dynamic practises which happen between individuals interacting face to face and in real time .
The inclusion of intimate presence and touch can also bring a better rapport between those interacting .
Recently , the rise of social media has helped people to form closer connections with each other , it is more convenient and cheaper to contact people online compared with face to face meetings .
In my opinion , social media websites such as Twitter and Facebook do not affect people 's chances of having face to face contact and thus do not negatively affect interpersonal skills .
On the contrary , it may even increase the chances of having face to face contact amoung people .
Firstly , social media networks have a large user base ; they help to link people from different parts of the world .
In the days without social networks , people did not get the chance to know people from different countries or people they had never met before .
The number of people that they knew was limited to the people they had met in their daily lives like classmates and working partners .
Therefore , social networks provide more and more connections between people and provides them with the chance to chat to people they have never met before ; this helps to develop interpersonal skills as well .
Secondly , although social networks make time for people to chat online but not face to face , they may still decide a time online to meet others face to face in the daily life .
In this case , the social network helps people to increase the amount they talk .
For example , if social networks did not exist , business people would need to meet each other face to face and this is time consuming . Sometimes even with business that is not so important , a lot of time is still spent on travel which is a waste .
However , social networks help people to meet and chat much more easily ; they can even use video chat and create group chats in order to chat with multiple parties at the same time .
Nowadays , some companies even conduct online video interviews with their applicants as it saves time and money .
Social networks may also create some negative impacts on people .
The largest negative impact is that due to online networks , some people have started to use and rely on internet all the time .
They spend too much time using online social networks and thus do not have time to meet with people in their real lives .
This not only affects their interpersonal skills but it is also bad for people 's health if they spend too much time on social media .
Secondly , social networks may leak personal information to the public , as the cyber environment is not perfect and not safe . People may not protect their privacy online effectively and sometimes people may use the personal information of others to deceive .
In conclusion , the unsafe online environment and spending too much time on internet may be the potential negative factors of using online social networks . However,
they provide people with a more convenient communication platform and improve the amount people meet each other .
It also helps people to develop their interpersonal skills through online chatting .
Overall , there are more benefits than the costs .
The world is becoming flatter due to social network websites such as facebook and twitter .
We can even find out what a friend who lives thousands of miles away ate for lunch though these kinds of social media .
From some points of view , social networks really have a lot of advantages ; they let us communicate with friends in a cheaper and more convenient way .
However , its disadvantages also can not be ignored when you consider them as a platform to show off and a stage for cyber crime .
Social network sites provides us with many conveniences .
Without hanging out with or talking to friends through the phone , we can know their latest news by scaning their webpage .
They can help us to learn more about each other .
They can make people closer as well .
For example , if you found out that one of your friend 's favourite singers is Justin Bieber through facebook , you could give them Justin Biber 's new album or tickets to his concert as a birthday gift .
It would be really sweet and you two would surely become closer .
In addition , social network sites can help you keep in touch with friends who live very far away .
I met some canadian friends in Egypt ;
without facebook we would have lost contact .
However , thanks to facebook , I can still keep in touch with them and I know what they have been doing recently as we live close to each other .
The disadvantages of social media are quite undeniable .
Research shows that people will unconsciously hide their real thoughts when they say or post something that will be exposed to the public .
It means that one can not know another 's real thoughts and personality by reading things that they have put on social media .
It would make them quite upset when they communicate in real life .
In addition , with all the " nice " guys around on social network websites , one may neglect the people surrounding them and just communicate with friends on facebook .
It is a common for two people sitting next to each other to seldom talk to each other and just look at their cellphones .
This kind of behaviour is not good for people 's psychological health according to research .
Cyber communication is quite different to face to face communication and people who depend on cyber communication too much will not be used to real life communication .
In addition , cyber relationships can not always work in real life .
With no close relationship in real life , one is more likely to feel lonely because the physiological need of human beings is to feel bonds with others through our five senses .
With the desire of people to be best among others , social network sites have now become a place to show off .
Some people will post their expensive things or their interesting places overseas that they have been on social networks and get a feeling of satisfaction by doing so .
This is mentally unhealthy and may trigger people , especially teenagers , to become material .
Last but not the least , with all kinds of personal information being displayed on one 's social network page , it is covenient for criminals to make use of this information in order to commit a crime .
Above all , social network sites are like a two sided knife and people can only take advantage of them by avoiding the possible disadvantages of them , for example , putting less personal information on their facebook page .
Modes of communication have been changing over the years , from letter writing to social networking .
This phenomenon is caused by rapidly changing technology , which has made communication faster than ever before .
Today , social media sites , such as Facebook and Twitter , are relatively common within contemporary society ; people can communicate with each other , online or offline , on these social networking platforms .
They can even meet new friends with similar interests on these platforms , which can connect almost everyone closely in many parts of the world .
However , critics may argue that the existence of social media sites has reduced physical human interactions among people ; they may prefer sitting in front of a computer to going out and meeting new friends .
This essay will discuss both the benefits and down sides of using social media in a contemporary society .
Nowadays , social media is able to disperse information faster than any other media .
About 50 % of people learn about breaking news from social media .
This is due to people spending comparatively more time on social networking than on reading newpapers .
Furthermore , with current technology , smartphones are able to get access to social media sites which have been made easier for consumers to use .
Hence , social media has benefited the masses by equipping them with a powerful tool to disperse information almost immediately to the people around them .
However , critics may argue that not all the information or news dispersed is reliable .
False information and hoaxes might be spread around social media .
For example , in 2012 , there were false rumors of fires , shootouts , and caravans of gunmen in a Mexico City suburb which had spread through Twitter and Facebook .
This caused panic among the people who flooded the local police department with numerous phone calls , and resulted temporarily closure of schools .
The spreading of false information can potentially be a psychological threat to everyone , given that social media can disperse information at a realtively fast speed .
There are cyber police who roam these social networking platforms to prevent these hoaxes spreading around .
However , , there are still unreliable sources spreading false information on social media sites despite high security controlling almost every social networking movement .
Social media is able to improve relationships and make new friends , provided that there is mutual trust and mutual understanding between both parties .
Many teenagers today claim that they are able to keep in touch with their friends through social media , regardless of their location .
In the past , people used to write letters to their friends and it would take a relatively long time to send the letter .
Therefore , with the help of technology , people are able to catch up with each other conveniently .
Furthermore , it is easier to make new friends who have simliar interests or hobbies .
However , in order for people to maintain their relationships and make new friends , mutual trust and understanding is required between both parties .
It might not be accurate to judge the other party 's feelings over social media as they may cover up their emotions while on social media .
In addition , there is also a chance that will miscommunicate with each other as they can not sense the tone of the other party over social media platforms .
This could result in unnecessary conflicts between two parties over miscommunication .
But , if there is trust and mutual understand on social media , it is an ideal way for people to improve relationships and make new friends .
In conclusion , social media in contemporary society is able to help one improve relationships and make new friends , as well as , dispersing information efficiently to the masses .
However , there is a risk of false information being spread and a chance of miscommunication .
Nevertheless , the advantages of social media will benefit the masses if the negative aspects of it can be carefully taken care of .
All-in-all , social media is the product of rapid technological advancement and there is more to come in the future .
Advantages : Social media sites have greatly improved long distance communication and interaction due to there accessibility and convenience .
In a globalised and interconnected world today , Twitter and Facebook are now mainstream platforms for social interaction .
With just one touch of any media/electronic device , one can easily interact and communicate with their friends without much hassle .
Thus , long distance relationships or friendships can be maintained and keeping in touch with your circle of friends has been made much easier .
With the sharing of personal photos , the posting of a status about one 's personal feelings or experiences and the ability to reply to these posts allows human interaction to be engaged and expanded with ease .
Introverts or those who are too shy to communicate with their friends are now able to do so in the form of words via social media platforms .
Thus , socialisation can occur seamlessly and effectively through the utilisation of such social media platforms.Meet-ups and appointments are no longer barriers for humans to contact and communicate with one another , making human interaction possible at one 's own convenience .
Society will adapt to such a phenomenon and physical interaction will be transformed into cyber interaction .
With the frequent use and reliance on social media and the Internet , a society that socialises through cyber interactions will be more advanced and better adapted to the highly connected world .
This will help society to progress rapidly .
Disadvantages : One of the main concerns about using social media platforms to communicate is credibility .
The certainty of what is being shared or expressed can not be proven physically as media limits physical interaction , except when using a webcam to chat .
We can not be certain about the reliabilty or truth of posts and information that we receive through the Inetrnet .
We may in actual fact be communicating through the hoax Facebook acccount of a cyber friend that we assumed to be real , but in reality is a fake account .
Photos and information retrieved from their profile page may be fabricated to suit a certain personal agenda .
Thus , the lack of face-to-face human contact restricts the actual interactions which can be stimulated through social media .
Although emocons can be used to highlight certain emotions , this differs from the real authentic emotions of your friends when you observed them through their body language and facial expressions .
The danger of socialisation via social media is the uncertainty of such communication due to the lack of physical interaction .
Furthermore , this lack of physical interaction has affected people 's inter-personal behaviour since communication is done through social media instead of meet-ups .
This lowers people 's ability to interact with one another which can adversely shape one 's behaviour .
The lack of exposure to real life interaction with humans will not create the confidence and skills needed for one to interact seamlessly and effectively with others .
Therefore , for an effective and efficient society , there needs to be a balance between both interaction on social media and face-to-face human interaction .
Nowadays , people can even use their phones to read the news and everyone can be first to witness what is happening in the world .
People use Twitter to follow the artists or celebrities they love and Facebook to see their friends ' recent activity .
Nevertheless , they can still use their phones to make normal calls and message contacts .
It is not only phones that do these jobs for them , but also devices like personal computers , laptops , tablets , and many other devices which are able to connect to the internet .
It is obvious to see that the internet saves people time and also connects people globally .
Several arguments have been made regarding social media actually having some inevitable disadvantages to people .
People can only use electrical devices to access the internet .
Whenever they need to use social media , they have to use a phone or computer .
Generally people need their eyes to look at the display screens on their phones or computers and fingers to manipulate the corresponding device .
As a result , they will stop using their eyes to connect with and hands to express their feeling to the people nearby them ; this means they have lost the tools they need for face-to-face communication .
This can be easily seen in restaurants or cafes nowadays .
A family of four could have dinner in a restaurant without any conversation , because they are holding their phones and looking at their display screens in one hand whilst the other hand is holding a fork .
A group of friends could have high tea in a caf  without chatting as well , because they do not know what to talk about and so focus on their display screens .
Children nowadays do not know what neighborhood games are or who stays beside them , all they know is pressing icons on screens .
These are some concrete examples of how socia media reduces face-to-face human contact .
When people make use of socia media to contact other people , what will happen is that their interpersonal communication skills will degrade and eventually be lost .
Firstly , they will loose the courage to meet strangers , not even the courage to talk .
Also , they will not have enough experience of communicating with people in person and , therefore , will not be trained in conversational skills .
As a result , social media helps them do jobs but indirectly affects their interpersonal skills .
Social media does have other advantages besides its general benefits to human beings .
First of all , people save money by using the internet to contact other people and read the news .
A father may be able to call his daughter , who is in another country , via socia media software instead of making an international call , which would cost a lot to a family living on a normal salary .
He could even talk to his daughter face-to-face using video call via the internet .
Secondly , people make friends all over the world and are able to update their friends on their recent activity easily .
A guy who is going travel for months can easily tell all of his friends about his activities .
If one of his friends , who is not aware of this , fails to contact him via telephone calls , he might be able to find his whereabouts using social media .
These are the advantages that save work most of the time .
In conclusion , socia media benefits people in several ways but at the same time harms people .
People should avoid the misuse of social media and use it in the proper way .
With the help of social media , people bond globally , information flows rapidly , and humans live happily .
All of us live in a technology driven society .
Have you ever wondered why we use these tools to connect with other people ?
It started with the invention of technology which has evolved tremendously over the past few decades .
In the past , we travelled by ship and now we can use airplanes to do so .
In the past , it took a few days to receive a message as we needed to post our letters , now we can use e-mail , which stands for electronic message , to send messages to our friends or even use our mobile phone to send our messages .
Because of the example I mentioned earlier the distance between us and our loved ones is often greater .
This is because due to technology such as airplanes , some of our friends might go overseas to continue their studies or you might move away from your family to pursue studies or even careers in life .
This makes Twitter and Facebook mediums that we need .
Nevertheless , everything in life has positive and negative effects .
This is applicable to these social media sites .
The next two paragraphs will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our society .
With the help of social media , we can stay in contact and keep ourselves up to date with our family and friends even if we are away from them .
Social media sites such as Facebook allow us to share our pictures or even chat online with our parents while we are overseas .
These approaches help parents to communicate with their children and to know what kind of activities their children are doing when they are overseas .
Social media is beneficial as it connects you and your loved ones even if you are separated by distance .
It might not be able to replace the joy that you feel when you are with your family but it could help to reduce the sadness of being away from them .
As I mentioned at the beginning , there are also disadvantages to using social media .
One of them is that it reduces levels of concentration especially among youngsters .
This is because people habitually check their Facebook pages as their friends will post something new every second .
Thus , you may find that some students browse facebook while attending lectures .
This means that the students are not concetrating when they are supposed to be doing so .
As a result , it could affect their lives and their studies .
This could then lead to stress as these students are not able to cope with their studies because they were distracted .
In my opinion , every individual should take responsibility for their own lives by making the right decision .
There are advantages and disadvantages in using social media sites , however in this case striking a balance between social media and real life is the most important thing to do .
Nowadays , the use of social media platforms is commonplace in our lives .
In an increasingly globalised world , such platforms enhance and complicate the links between indivduals in the world .
Thanks to them , people can get to know one another online , without having to travel to meet up for business purposes or personal reasons .
However , they are also bringing some social changes whereby these virtual worlds are overtaking the real-life world . These have resulted in some negative impacts on people 's daily lives and therefore are becoming a large problem for societies as a whole .
As people spend more and more time on social media sites , the importance of face-to-face human contact decreases .
As people feel more confident online , where they do not have to face people in real life on the spot , they feel more comfortable and thus prefer communicating online .
This results in a lack of interpersonal skills in individuals , especially young students as they always have the option to turn their backs on real-life and go online .
This becomes a huge problem when they have no choice but to face something in real life .
As they are so used to having an online avatar , they may lose their self-identity in real life and may not realise how to interact with people in real-life .
Another problem with social media is that the benefits of investing such an enormous amount of time and energy are not relfected as something positive for the users .
The reason why it is so addictive and why more people are getting into social media is because they seek attention from their friends .
However , sparks of sudden attention are extremely short-lived and disappear easily thus they do not add any value or meaning to the user 's life .
Also , according to research , it has been proven that users feel sadder after using Facebook ; this is because users unknowingly compare their lives with other people 's lives .
But seriously , most people only post the happiest moments in their lives .
Social media definitely has some other strong benefits that make users stay , for example , the links among people .
Indeed , I myself use Facebook just because of the friends that i want to keep in contact with .
However , friendships in the virtual world are so superficial and are not so relevant in real-life .
Also , as many profit-driven companies realize the huge amount of human traffic on social media sites , they begin to use it as a pond from which to fish customers by uploading many advertisements .
Furthermore , this also possibly triggers privacy issues as Facebook allows other profit-driven companies to gain access to the information on its users .
As this happens , users are more and more prone to possible frauds .
Social media sites are at their peak at the moment . However , I believe that when people realize that such sites are not making them better people in real-life , they will not indulge in them as much as they are now .
The users will soon realise that they do not need social media sites to keep in contact with the their friends because , if they really need somebody , they will be able to reach their friends no matter what .
We think that we are all connected through social media , but are we really connected or are we falling apart ?
Social media sites like Facebook and Twitter were born with the intention of connecting people from around the world .
The idea seems great , and nowadays most people , even the older generation , are members of least one social media platform , like Facebook .
Parents are now " friends " with their kids , and they can now " follow " their kids more closely and in real time .
People post statuses about their random thoughts or daily activities on Twitter and post different kinds of photos on Facebook frequently , in order to be connected with their so called friends .
However , as we then tend to spend too much time on this and have significantly reduced face-to-face human contact , our interpersonal skills are eventually affected .
First and foremost , I would like to share the advantages of using social media in my daily life .
As a student , I tend to meet lots of people from different backgrounds and at different settings .
We may meet only once but we exchange our contact numbers as well as facebook accounts in order to keep in touch .
Unlike keeping contact numbers that we may never call , social media sites like facebook is a great way for friends from different fields or even different parts of the world to stay connected .
Within a click , we could check a friend 's profile and read their updates .
Alternatively , we could update our profile by posting on our wall and our friends could read it on their newsfeed .
This allows friends who may not have the time to meet up to remain connected in a way .
Not only that , new friends can easily be met through such online platforms .
Hence , our social circle is indeed expanding .
Nonetheless , what seems to connect us can be the reason we fall apart .
The obvious disadvantage of using social media is the time reduction on face-to-face contact .
This subsequently leads to poor interpersonal skills which inhibit the growth of our real social circle .
For example , we tend to send birthday wishes when Facebook promts us " Today is someone 's birthday " .
In fact , we may have forgotten our friend 's birthday .
We used to send cards during festive seasons like Chinese New Year , and it feels good to write a card and of course to receive one with stamps on it .
Gone are those times , now we do mass sending and the receiver may feel less meaning in such online wishes .
As time passes , we may have more " friends " on the list , but the meaning of friends may need to be redefined .
In a nutshell , every sword has two edges .
The users of social media sites need to strike a balance between the real world and the virtual one .
We should maximize the benefits of such platforms but be careful of their impact on our actual lives .
Ultimately , the best way to enhance interpersonal skills is still through face-to-face meetings , social media sites are only the tools to enhance it .
Nowadays , social media sites are commonly used in society .
I believe 80 percent of people use social media sites .
These sites are used to connect people around the world .
They consists of functions for connecting , sharing , interacting and advertising .
However , there are also some disadvantages which occur due to social media and which are a concern for society .
Therefore , this article is written to explain the pros and cons of using social media in our daily lives .
Firstly , with the function of social media sites being to connect people , everyone is able to interact and communicate with their friends and families , or even strangers without any time and place constraints .
Through social media sites , we can chat to our friends who stay in Europe and New Zealand ;
there are over a thousand miles between Singapore and these two countries .
However , we are able to chat to our friends without having to travel to their countries .
They save us a lot of money and time and strengthen our relationships although we stay in different places around the world .
Besides that , companies can also use the convenience of social media sites , such as Facebook chat or Skype , to facilitate meetings with parties of projects from around the world .
Substantial costs are saved without the tiring travel from one point to another .
The huge amount of savings can be utilized in other sectors which will benefit the company more and boost up the company 's profit .
However , there are two sides to every story .
Some scholars argue that the use of social media reduces face-to-face contact between people .
Since ancient times , humans have interacted with others face to face .
Without facial expressions , it is easier to misunderstand the intentions of speakers .
That is why facial expressions are one of the most important elements in social learning .
In addition , " social media sites are affecting writing skills " , this is the point of view in society .
Based on a statistical report , writing skills are reduced the more time we spend on social media sites .
I believe most of us have had the experience of suddenly forgetting how to write a word that we should know .
Auto correction software is so effective when using electronic devices that we forget the importance of writing .
Writing is an essential skill for people to express their own feelings and opinions .
'Privacy ' , this is a word that has become popular in these last few decades .
Humans have their own rights and privacy .
I believe that most of us agree with these terms .
However , there has been news about some social media sites leaking users ' information to companies for cash reimbursement .
Everything we type on social media sites is recorded by the server and then transferred to companies for spying and advertising .
Although it looks like there are no laws and that it is your own space to speak about and do anything you want , this is actually wrong .
You are not only controlled by government laws but also spied on by the government .
In conclusion , there are two sides to every story .
It is our responsibility to identify the advantages and disadvantages of social media .
To utilize technology well , we should do our best to not only balance the pros and cons but also lengthen the list of pros and shorten the list of cons .
Thus , new technology will be able to bring a prosperous future for us and our next generation .
With the wide spread advances of technology , social media sites are becoming more and more popular .
Being on social media sites such as facebook and twitter has become a main trend as well as daily work nowadays .
With this situation , both the advantages and disadvantages of using social media apply to our daily life .
On one hand , it is obvious that many advantages have been brought into our lives .
Social media provides people with the opportunity to contact each other at any time or place .
Whether we are at home or at school , at work or on holiday , we are able to communicate and interact with our friends .
Even when people are thousands of miles apart , social media makes it possible to continue interactions by writing comments .
When our phones are accidentally gone , we can use social media to contact with our friends .
People who try to talk in public can also actively take part in group chats via social media .
Besides , we can make more friends through such interactions when our friends also bring their other friends into the conversation .
Therefore , the popularity of social media sites has made it more convenient for people to update friends ' statuses and contact their friends more frequently .
On the other hand , we need to rethink about the influences brought by social media .
There are still many disadvantages of using social media .
Firstly , interpersonal skills may be affected by the reduction of face-to-face human contact .
While social media brings convenience to people 's lives , people are more and more willing to use social media to chat instead of meeting face-to-face which has a time and place requirement .
People who are not good at talking in public may be more reluctant to talk to people , and , therefore , their interpersonal skills will never improve .
Secondly , people 's over-overuse may , to some degree , exacerbate social alienation ; this kind of alienation may cause some social media users to suffer from an over-dependence on virtual social networking .
More and more networking has been transferred to the internet from real life .
There is a potential danger for teenagers who are growing up with these social changes to get hurt .
Thirdly , the constant updating of luxury living standards as well as other types of showing off may make people 's daily lives more and more high sounding , which is not an accurate social representation .
Lastly , it is easy for people to waste a lot of time using social media .
Again , there is a trend for them to suffer from social media addiction and their studies and work may be greatly influenced .
Since we can see both advantages and disadvantages of using social media , and we can not deny the huge benefits that have been brought to us , the trend of using social media may still last for a long time .
Therefore , everytime we use social media , we should take both sides into consideration and try to avoid being affected by the disadvantages .
Only by absorbing the essence and discarding the dregs can we make better use of social media .
In a sophisticated era like today , experts keep producing inventions that are meant to make life easier .
Geographical borders are not a problem anymore because communication and information technology has been continuously enhanced .
Telephones may have been perceived as the biggest innovation ever created the first time Graham Bell introduced them .
However , since the internet was invented , telephones have started to give way to social media sites .
Many advantages are given to the users .
Let us take examples from Facebook and Twitter , two of the most famous social media sites .
Through Facebook , people are able to maintain relationships with their old acquaintances .
This benefit can not be obtained through telephone or mail because people 's numbers and addresses may change from time to time ; on Facebook , people can keep in contact with old friends simply by using a name and photo , for example , as the identifier .
Facebook is a combination of a messaging and chatting service , personal profiles , sharing platform , and other entertainment add-ons ( i.e .
social games ) which allows users to communicate with remote people , and to update and express themselves at the same time .
Twitter , which has a more simplified function than Facebook , is more beneficial if used as an information sharing platform .
Twitter only allows users to give updates that are limited to short sentences in order to spread words quickly , only highlighted messages are delivered .
On Facebook , a comprehensive way of sharing is offered ; multiple photos and videos can be uploaded , long notes can be published , even documents and data can be shared through Facebook nowadays .
These advantages also come in handy as most of these social media sites are accessible through mobile applications on our smartphones .
Despite the luxuries that are offered by social media , there are also harmful side effects which people may not have been aware of beforehand .
Research shows that the frequency of face-to-face meetings among people that are addicted to social media sites has been decreasing .
Consequently , it affects their interpersonal skills .
People can think while typing and prepare what they want to say but in face-to-face communication , every word that comes out of their mouthes may not be well arranged and is a representation of their personality .
This skill requires practices and can not be achieved completely through social media .
There is a situation where a family is having dinner together in a restaurant but everybody is busy on their own gadgets , posting pictures on Facebook , updating statuses on Twitter , or even chatting to friends .
Social media can be used to connect people regardless of their geographical boundaries but this does not mean that the people surrounding you should be neglected as a result .
This is related to the interpersonal skills that were mentioned before , these skills could decrease qualitatively if we become used to facing gadgets instead of facing human beings .
Another disadvantage that affects other people is that by only showing selected parts of our lives , we build a " false image " in public .
We tend to only share our happiest moments on social media .
Because of this , other people might start to think that our lives are full of happiness and that we have no problems at all .
Other people might then be influenced by us and do the same .
As a result , people might think of themselves as lowly which may lead to depression and mental illness .
It also reduces our sympathy .
This is a serious social problem and affects a lot of people .
As explained above , modern and sophisticated technology is not always advantageous .
There are a lot of disadvantages that people may not be aware of .
It is up to people 's discretion and comprehension to decide which side they want to take .
So , we should never forget to think of the benefits and disadvantages of every decision that we make .
Nowadays , the advancement of technology improves the lives of many people .
In most countries , there has been an emergence of social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter .
Many people think that these social media sites benefit the communication between people , while others argue that they have several negative impacts on society .
One of the advantages of social media sites is that they can connect us more closely than before .
In past decades , when social media sites were not yet fully developed , people connected with others who lived far away by using a phone , or even writing a letter .
However , calling a person on the phone or writing them a letter costs money , and sending a letter to a person who lives far away , especially in a village , takes a lot of time .
The appearance of social media sites solved those problems .
People connecting through social media sites spend no money on communication , it also takes only a few seconds for the message to reach the intended recipient .
Therefore , the advantages of social media sites are that they save money and time , and also provide convenience for many people .
Moreover , they also provides an alternative way for people to contact a person they have not seen for a very long time , such as their friends from primary school and secondary school .
When we graduate from school , we will probably lose contact with some of our friends .
Some of them may have changed their phone numbers and addresses , and we are not able to contact them via phone or letter .
If phones and letters were the only way to contact them , we would probably not be able to find them .
Facebook and Twitter can serve as alternative ways of making connections between us and our old friends .
Hence , social media sites serve as a platform for connecting people .
Everything with benefits also has disadvantages .
On the other hand , social media sites also cause some negative consequences for people and society .
The advancement of social media sites has caused people to rely on them to the point that some of them prefer using these sites to contact each other rather than talking to each other face to face .
Many people argue that this is the most serious problem caused by social media sites .
The use of social media sites indirectly causes a reduction in face-to-face human communication , which in turn causes the loss of interpersonal skills in many people .
As we all know , interpersonal skills are essential for us to communicate with each other and to present our views and ideas .
The loss of interpersonal skills results in the inability of people to present their ideas well .
As a result , their ability to compete with each other in the society will gradually decrease .
In conclusion , social media sites cause both positive and negative consequences for people and society .
As a part of this modern society , we should learn to distinguish between the good and bad impacts introduced by the advancement of technology , and also learn to avoid the cons and maximize the benefits of those sites .
With the advancement of technology in recent years , the need to keep in-touch with people and latest news has become tremendous .
Some famous examples would be social media sites like Twitter and Facebook .
With more than billion users from all over the world , social media sites have clearly demonstrated there success and play an important part in our lives .
However , there are arguments that social media causes a reduction in face-to-face human contact , which in turn affects interpersonal skills .
Let 's examine the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily lives and society .
First and foremost , all social media sites are free .
All users ' need is internet connection and an email account ; anyone can create a Facebook or Twitter ID and start their journey on social media .
Secondly , it helps people keep in-touch with one another .
Finding old friends on Facebook , for example , is much easier than finding people in real life .
Social media helps to overcome the issue of geographical distance and brings people closer together .
Thirdly , social media sites keep us up-to-date with the latest news and updates from almost everywhere in the world , all within the click of a button .
Last but not least , social media sites also link people together by allowing us to create our own groups , pages or websites in order to share our hobbies , interests and studies in particular subjects .
Hence , it is undeniable that these sites play an important role in our global inter-connected world .
However , social media sites can also have a negative impact on people .
Undeniably , it becomes more addictive the more time we spend socialising and interacting virtually .
We spend the majority of our time on sites like Facebook and Twitter and it affects our daily work productivity and performance .
In the corporate world , employers often block social media networks in order to prevent employees from spending their office time on their personal accounts instead of concentrating on their work .
Using text-messaging language as an informal way of communicating on social media also causes negative consequences for us in the long term .
The more time we spend on these sites , the less time we spend interacting with one another face-to-face .
Hence it reduces valuable interactions between people as well as the time we spend away from computer screens and mobile phones .
In addition , there are also false reports and fake IDs on both social media sites ; people often use these fake IDs to insult and harass people , like the case of Heather Chua which occurred recently on Facebook .
These malicious comments often go viral creating a strong negative effect on the user in real life . This might lead to the victim feeling unwilling to interact with others in real life .
In conclusion , every story has two sides and it depends on how we exploit it .
With technology currently booming , it is advisable that people become more technology-savvy if they want to spend more time interacting with each other through social media sites . However , this does not mean that we should neglect face-to-face human interaction as it plays an even more important role in our lives .
The more social websites such as Twitter , Facebook and Weibo become ubiquitous , seamless and imperative in our lives , the more people worry about the younger generation having problems with face-to-face communication .
However , I believe that the benefits brought by these online chat rooms tremendously outweigh their repercussions .
Social media enables us to explore the far away world without paying for expensive airplane tickets and sparing one-week holidays .
The convenience is beyond description .
With a small smart phone or a computer at school , work or home , we can easily make friends worldwide with one 'click ' and get to know about their lives by conversing with them and reading their blogs , photos and statuses .
Compared to face-to-face interaction , in online conversation it is easier for strangers to open up to each other .
Since some information has already been revealed on their home pages , it is also easier to find common topics to talk about .
Moreover , people usually like to boldly share their real feelings online without their masks being taken off in real life .
This was indicated in a report done by Boston University in 2012 , 80 % of information that is posted online is true whereas a person may lie 3 out of 10 times in real life .
This shows that a facebook friend may know more about you than a close friend who does not have a facebook account .
This is because we act up who we are in reality while we have no reason to do this in the virtual world .
Although sometimes genuine sharing of information may be inappropriate or even harmful , such as the prevalent use of vulgarity and harsh comments , we can minimize those repercussions through strict regulation of online content .
Another advantage of social media is in aiding the spread of democracy .
People around the world can easily share their thoughts about their governments .
This eliminates the incomplete information disadvantage of some remote rural regions where people are less aware of what actually is happening around them .
One of the examples is the 2012 riots that happened in Egypt and Zambia .
The idea of searching for democracy was passed from the Egyptians to people of Zambia quickly through the use of social media .
However , as the government controls most of the media,
social media may be used as a tool in their campaign to manipulate the thoughts of the public .
For example , in the 2012 general election in Singapore , Dr Tan Chee Keong used facebook to spread his campaign videos to the public .
Though because of this , social media is still a much fairer and more transparent online platform for the public to share their ideas on compared to other traditional medias .
Intensive use of Social media does reduce the time people spend on face-to-face communication .
It is normal to see a group of people sitting together around a table in a food court or restaurant and for all of them to have a cell phone in their hands .
They are so busy with their many virtual friends that some of them neglect the feelings of their real-life friends .
In this case , I have to say that to err is human .
What we can do is educate the public about the importance of the friends at their side and teach them to manage their time well .
In conclusion , the use of social media has more advantages than disadvantages on our daily lifes .
What we can do is cautiously manage the time we spend online and manage the words we use online .
With regulation from the government and relevant authorities , the virtual world could be a better place .
Social media 's role in connecting people around the world is undeniable .
Thanks to social media , communication between people all over the world is possible and can be done with ease .
As well as the ease of communication regardless of distance , there are many other advantages such as the sharing of knowledge and trading which can be done through social media .
Nevertheless , in addition to these advantages , some disadvantages may appear such as a reduction in face-to-face human contact which could affect interpersonal skills , privacy issues and the fraud that can be done through social media .
Twitter , Facebook and Skype are some of the social media sites which enable us to keep in touch with friends or family who are in other cities or countries .
Through these sites we are able to talk to them , to know what their activities are and who their friends are , etc. From a surface point of view there is no doubt that these sites help us to maintain better relationships with our relatives regardless of distance .
The sharing of information can be done faster through social media as well , that is why nowadays many news publishers have their own social media accounts . For example , Channel News Asia has a twitter account and updates its followers with headline news .
This shows how news and information can be shared easily through social media .
Furthermore , since many teenagers and young adults are fans of social media , information can reach them easily without them having to watch or listen to the news reports .
Due to the popularity of social media , many people have started to do their business via these sites .
More and more advertisements can be found on Facebook ; whether it is our friends who are selling their products or professional brands selling their products online , we can buy and contact sellers through these sites . This can be considered as an advantage for us , the buyers .
However , is it the same when we keep in touch with someone virtually compared to when we meet them personally ?
I do think there is difference and I believe many of us will agree .
When we write or communicate virtually , we can hide our true feelings and may not be ourselves since we do not want the other party to judge us .
As well as that , sometimes the message of one party can not be delivered properly to the other one since the communication is done through written language ; the 'tone ' of the message sent may be different when it is received .
Many people are very brave and tell people about their opinions online but in real life some of them can be very shy and not outspoken at all .
This leads to a bad inter-personal skills as well as problems with trust .
Nowadays we can not really trust the new people who we meet on social media since we do not know whether they are even 'real' .
Some people fake their identities on media sites so that they can get to know more people , some may even cheat others .
In addition , privacy issues have become more popular nowadays since some people do not realize that they may actually be sharing information that they did not want to share in the first place .
Therefore , while social media sites undoubtedly have their benefits in our lives , we should consider their drawbacks and thus use them wisely so that we can make the most of of their benefits and so that they disadvantages us in the smallest way possible .
It is normal to see almost everyone on public transport looking at their phone or wearing an ear piece in this modern society .
Not only one but many developed and developing countries have the same picture .
Some say that it is a necessary step for human evolution .
Social media sites like Twitter and Facebook are popular among people because they connect them to people from different countries .
They also have many negative effects such as the loss of face-to-face communication skills which are important in their work place .
This essay will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily lives .
One of the significant advantages of using a popular social media site is that people can reach other easily , even if they have not been in contact for a long time .
In this fast paced and competitive world , people may not be able to keep in touch with others .
With the help of social media sites , people are able to upload their new discoveries and funny scenes and can be updated with new information about their friends .
Personally I am studying overseas , busy study life keeps me from contacting my old friends .
Using a common social media site with my friends helps me to know what their statuses are nowadays .
I am able to easily find a common topic when I do contact them .
Many Malaysians cross the sea to work here in Singapore .
Many of them are busy with work and are away from their children .
One of the managers at my work place is in the same situation .
After my manager taught her mother how to use Facebook , she was able to upload video clips of her grandchild .
Therefore , my Manager will not miss moments of her daughter 's growth .
Social media sites are also a very useful tool for people to start new friendships or relationships .
People can connect or get closer to people with the same preferences .
It is easier for people to approach one another after knowing this information .
Students can exchange their experiences of studying even if they are in different countries .
People are able to share their cultures or pretty photos online , therefore others can share the joy with them .
Thus I believe that social media sites are a useful tool to help people get to know each other better .
However , social media sites are a double-sided sword , they also bring some negative effect into our daily lives .
One of the disadvantages that concerns many people is that people will loose interest in face-to-face communication .
Many people like to use language to make things up about themselves , and loose confidence when they talk to each other .
Although not everyone was good at public relationships before the existence of social media sites , we can not deny that they do affect some people 's interpersonal skills .
In conclusion , shadows always exists when there is light .
We should make the most of the advantages of the technology we create and try to avoid the negative effects .
Social media sites are supposed be a very useful and convenient tool to bring people closer together in this globalised world .
The use of social media has largely influenced the ways in which we communicate with one another .
Online friends become real life friends and real life friends communicate with one another online .
Social media has changed the ways we exchange information and our interpersonal relationships profoundly .
There are advantages and disadvantages in this change .
Social media has reshaped the way we communicate .
In real life , we communicate with one another as equal participants .
We share ideas , stories and forge friendships based on mutual respect .
However , communication on social media is largely based on " broadcasting and listening " .
When we use facebook and post pictures and statuses
we are actively " presenting " a facade of our lives to others .
We tend to post our best pictures and statuses that are funny .
We broadcast these facades to others .
The images we choose to present are tentatively considered ;
the audience is not a specific person , but everyone we know , or even the entire world .
There is an element of being attention seeking rather than expressing one 's true opinions on social networks .
On the other hand , the viewers are not the listeners ;
they are just scrolling down pages upon pages of pictures and statuses until they see one which they think is funny .
It is not the broadcasters themselves they care about , but the content .
This type of communication does not help forge interpersonal relationships .
In real life , establishing friendship requires an all-round understanding in one another and the ability to care for one another .
The latter requires face to face interaction where we can show our emotions to the other .
One can not truly understand a person by only stalking their facebook page where they carefully chooses what to present .
One can not truly show their emotions to another by texting the = ) sign .
The broadcasting and viewing model is not good for forging relationships .
However , it is good for sharing information .
On social media , everyone is a broadcaster and a viewer .
Because of my social network account , I seldom read newspapers or go to news websites anymore ; I can easily stay informed through the statuses of my friends .
If I am interested in politics , I can follow politics newspapers or public figures .
I get news about sales , clothes and cosmetics from my friends .
If some of my friends have horrible taste in clothes and they post them often , I can simply block them .
Information gets circulated .
The most popular information gets circulated the most so I seldom miss it .
Social networks play a role in providing and also filtering information .
This saves me from wasting time reading newspapers and watching TV .
Personally I feel more at ease on social medias .
From the above two points of view I think social media helps forge more interest-based friendships .
With the help of social media , I have become real life friends with people from online forums who I share the same interests with .
I can also discover some of my friends ' interest which we have in common so that talking to one another is much more about life , study , friends , etc .
This type of communication does not focus on how we feel but whatever is interesting .
In this case , interpersonal skills are not as important because our goal is not to impress somebody , but to find information that we are both interested in .
In conclusion , I think social media has reshaped interpersonal relationships from a more human-based friendship that requires sharing and caring between friends , to a more information-based friendship that requires mutual interests .
There are advantages and disadvantages , however , whether it is good or bad we are still not sure .
It is just different .
The advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily lives .
People who live in the modern world really can not live without social media sites like Twitter and Facebook .
Almost all students and young adults possess a Facebook or Twitter account .
It is true that social media allows people to connect with one another more conveniently .
However , it seems that , especially for some , sharing parts of their lives , such as videos and photos , on social media sites has become really necessary .
An extremely interesting and ironic phenomenon was discovered ; a group of friends met and sat around one table , but none of them were really chatting with one another .
Instead , all of them were more interested in posting pictures of this " cheerful " meeting on their social media sites .
Therefore , there is a need to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of social media .
Social media enables people from different parts of the world to communicate with one another .
People used to write letters and send post cards to keep in touch with people who lived far away from them in the past .
It would take a few days or weeks for those messages to be received .
Nowadays , all people need to do is type in front of the computer in their own rooms
and people on the other side will receive the message in a second .
Distance and time are no longer problems , which is convenient especially when instant chat is needed .
However , when people become more and more addicted to this convenience and fail to communicate with the people close to them , their face-to-face interpersonal skills will be lost .
Social media provides people with a way of talking and chatting which can never be considered as a method of communication .
When one chats on these media sites , there is no eye connection , no delivery of emotions and even expressions are typed in using combinations of punctuation .
For more convenience , sentences are shortened to simplify three or four words such as lol ( which means to laugh intensively ) and " asap " ( which means as soon as possible ) .
People indeed go to great lengths to make their words as short as they can .
When they are communicating with people face-to-face , expressing themselves appropriately becomes a really big problem .
Social media also provides people with a huge amount information about the people and things that they are interested in .
For example , on Twitter , it is exciting to follow people that you adore like famous movie and television stars , business men and entrepreneurs .
It makes people feel extremely close to their admirers ' lives and work .
Updated news about people you care about can be easily obtained when you refresh your social media sites on your smart phones and laptops at any time .
However , after one has registered with these social media sites which are not reliable , all the information you have filled in can be used as a weapon against you in the future .
Furthermore , not everyone on social media sites is honest .
The profile picture displayed may not be the person who that user says they really are .
The reason might just be that they just want to " decorate " their face .
But there is a possibility that the person on the other side is deceiving you in order to obtain information against you .
There is no pledge of authenticity to protect people 's information which they share on social media sites and privacy .
To sum up , social media has advantages and disadvantages on people 's daily lives .
It shortens the distance between people from all over the world and makes instant communication possible .
It also becomes more convenient to obtain and update information by using social media .
On the contrary , social media makes people lose their ability to communicate effectively in their real lives and puts people at risk by exposing their privacy to people whose identity can not be verified on social media sites .
How does social media help change our lives ?
With the development of technology , social media is playing a more and more significant role in the world .
Everyone in the world uses it every day to express their feelings or ideas and a lot of other stuff which helps their friends know more about their lives .
However , it also raises concerns about whether social media brings us more benefits or disadvantages .
Although it helps to connect us with our friends wherever we are , it also reduces the chances of us talking to our friends face to face ; this may affect our interpersonal skills .
Thus , whether there are more advantages or disadvantages becomes a tough question for every human being .
Many people say they will support social media because it really helps them to view how their friends are doing in other parts of the world .
This is especially important for people who are overseas .
To them , social media is the only resource they can use to find out everything that has happened in their home country and their method of showing their lives to their lovers as well .
What 's more , these days social media plays an important role in spreading information .
Nowadays , people can easily put their renting information on their facebook account and wait for responses from people who are from different parts of the world ; this brings us a huge amount of convenience .
It is quite significant especially for young teenagers who would rather go to these sites to read the news and know what is happening in the world than read a newspaper every day .
However , there are also a large number of people who are against this technology .
They worry a lot about the bad effects it has on teenagers who are still developing themselves .
They point out that social media actually reduces the chances for us to talk to the people around us face to face .
The more we care about facebook , the less time we will have to spend with our friends .
Nowadays , it is quite common at a party to see people looking at their phones and reading all the posts on facebook if they are bored .
This makes people worry because if teenagers continue to use social media frequently , it will decrease their ability to talk to people .
They will find it becomes difficult for them to find any topics to discuss with other people .
Personally , I strongly agree that social media brings us more disadvantages in comparison with the advantages it gives us .
Although it is really useful when we need to use it to let other people know we live a really good life , it wastes a lot of time as well .
Think of it in another way , if we used the time we spend wandering these sites to do other more meaningful things , we may have already finished a book .
We should keep in mind that there are still other ways for us to contact our family and friends .
Everything can be bad if we do not know how to use it wisely , no matter whether it is really good or not .
As a result , it is important for people to know that we need to be cautious about the time we spend on social media .
As stated above , I strongly believe that if we can use social media wisely rather than abusing it , we will all live better lives .
The advantages and disadvantages of social media .
Nowadays , as technology is becoming increasingly advanced , more and more social media sites are showing up in our daily lives .
You can see people using Facebook and Twitter on their smart phones or ipads when on buses or on trains .
Some may say that the appearance of modern media will reduce the chances of people communicating face to face .
This essay will illustrate the pros and cons of using social media in modern society .
First of all , social media makes it more convenient for people to make friends and contact each other .
Years ago when these modern products were not popular , the ways for people to communicate or contact people far way were restricted to making phone calls , sending emails or writing letters .
Some will take a long time and some are not efficient enough for people to get a response .
However , social media solves these problems .
People can contact their friends on the internet and get their reply very quickly .
This method of communication is also not limited to words ;
people can express themselves through pictures or emotions .
People can also get to know their friends ' statuses and moods by looking at their posts on line .
Moreover , people can be aware of what is going on with a social situation , see the comments online and share their opinions on these websites .
Social media makes people 's lives much more colorful and provides them with a lot of fun .
However , social media may do some harm to people 's lives .
People might spend more time chatting on the internet than communicating face to face to the point that interpersonal skills could be badly affected .
Some people spend a lot of time on it and forget their real lives .
Actually , I have thought some people were very funny and interesting after chatting to them online ,
only to find that they are quite boring when I talk to them in real life .
Teenagers develop their interpersonal and social skills as they grow up .
If they spend too much time on social media , it may result in problems with their mental development .
They may feel uncomfortable when they have to communicate with people face to face .
Some may spend less and less time with their family and might not know how to express themselves .
Moreover , the wrong values you might find on these websites could affect teenagers and confuse them ;
some may even do something wrong .
In conclusion , the emergence of social media sites is a double edged sword .
They can make our lives simpler .
People can promote their friendships and relationships through social media .
However , it can also make people forget to communicate with their family and friends in real life and might negatively affect their interpersonal skills .
But overall , the advantages far outweigh the disadvantages .
So we need to make good use of social media , make it a fun way of adding some excitement when life is boring
and try to bypass the shortcomings .
We should remember to send greetings to our friends and family frequently .
Nowadays , with the advancement of technology , it is easy to communicate wherever you are .
The emergence of social media sites has truly connected people closely .
People can find out their friends ' recent looks and interesting things that have happened to them just by checking their facebook or another social media site .
We can not deny that social media sites truly make sure old friends do not lose your information and the chance to communicate with you even if you are in a different country .
However , social media sites truly reduce face to face communication which truly affects interpersonal skills .
There are two advantages and two disadvantages of using social media in people 's daily lives .
Firstly , social media sites can connect people with their friends and parents closely .
By typing words and displaying pictures , people can express the emotions that they are too shy to express .
For example , on mother 's day , if people are too shy to say " I love you " to their mothers they can type it on their mother 's facebook page .
Then their mother will also know the emotion and feel warm .
On the other hand , when a teenager is studying in a foreign country , the internet is the only way that they can communicate with their parents and friends .
Therefore , social media is truly good for people .
Secondly , social media sites do not only connect people with their friends .
People can also find out a lot of information about the celebrities on Twitter and Facebook such as Obama , Bill Gates and get first-hand study materials on them .
They can learn about how these people succeeded and they can also get the chance to talk to them and find out these famous people 's thoughts by using social media .
On the other hand , with the help of social media , a homeless person or someone who needs money to cure a disease can get help from the world quickly . This is because once one person knows the information , they will share it on their " friends area " , then many people will know and the information will spread to people who can help .
On the other hand , there are also problems with the popularity of social media .
Firstly , when people rely on social media to communicate with their friends and parents , they become accustom to communicating by typing and not talking .
People even prefer talking to their friends and meeting their friends online and therefore , will gradually reject face-to-face communication .
Therefore , social media truly limits interpersonal skills because people lose the chance and the ability to practice talking and building relationships with their friends .
Secondly , without communicating with people in real life , people lose the ability to judge if something is the truth or a lie .
There are many people on social media with beautiful images and good content on their pages , however in real life , they may not have jobs or live poorly .
Teenagers may believe these people and be easily cheated and lose their money .
Therefore , social media is not safe which is bad for teenagers ' future development .
All in all , the emergence of social media truly helps people a lot in many areas .
However , some disadvantages exist which will affect people to some degree .
The Advantages and Disadvantages of Using Social Media in Our Daily Lives and Society .
Nowadays , with the development of technology and society , social media has become more popular and even important in our daily lives .
We communicate with others using social media sites , such as twitter , facebook and microblog , more and more frequently .
There is no need for people to leave their homes in order to interact with others , they can chat online , share pictures , tell others what they have been doing or share funny stories .
It seems like people build good relationships with others through social media , but problems do exist .
People do not know how to talk to others face to face , especially strangers .
Therefore , we need to talk about the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily lives and society .
Starting with the advantages , there are two aspects : It is more convenient to contact others and it is easier to learn about others .
One advantage is that it is more convenient to contact others through social media .
In the old days , if someone wanted to pass on some important news to another person , who lived far away , they would have needed to write a letter and that wastes time .
The long distance made spreading messages very difficult at that time .
Therefore , people may not have contacted their faraway friends and relatives unless it was something important .
However , people can now contact anyone in the world , who can use a computer , at any time and there is no time delay when sending a message .
The other advantage is that it is easier to find out information about others through social media .
If there was no social media , it would be difficult for people to learn about a stranger .
They may collect information about that person by asking their friends , colleagues or family members
but the information they collected may not be complete or true .
Today , with the help with social media , people can easily get the information they want just by searching on line , and learn what that person does everyday and at what time .
However , there are disadvantages of using social media in our daily lives . It wastes time , causes illnesses related to sitting for a long time in front of the computer , results in the quick-spreading of rumors and fake news and , most importantly , makes people less able to talk to others face to face confidently .
It is weird that people sit together at a table but all look at their phones instead of talking to each other .
If there is a joke on their facebook page , they may talk to others in this way , " hi , look , how ridiculous is this ? " , then they will laugh together .
It does not matter if it is a party , dinner or just simply a get-together , there are always people bowing their heads and playing on their phones even if their family and friends are in front of them .
In conclusion , there are both advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily lives .
People should enjoy the advantages of social media while being aware of the disadvantages ; trying their best to avoid the disadvantages happening to themselves and their friends and family .
The present day is considered to be the era of social media sites like Facebook and Twitter which are connecting people around the world .
However , some people worry that social networks are affecting interpersonal skills as they reduce face-to-face human contact .
The advantages and disadvantages of using social media in society are elaborated on as follows .
Nobody can deny the advantages of social media as it connects people regardless of their nationalities , races , cultures and languages .
Social media is a trending channel and a suitable means of communication .
Firstly , social media brings convenience to the world .
It has erased the boundaries of distance and time .
You no longer have to worry about the time it takes to deliver letters and packages .
Nowadays , thanks to social media , with just one click , you can contact your family and friends wherever you want .
You can share photos , videos and every meaningful experience in your life .
More importantly , it is cheap and easy to use social media .
Secondly , social media opens the door of opportunity for people due to its great benefit of connectivity .
A lot of new graduates can find jobs with the help of Facebook and Twitter .
Young people can widen their relationships , meet new friends and learn wonderful things about many parts of the world .
In business , social media is a good tool for developing and advertising products and services .
On the other hand , social media also has disadvantages which have created concerns within society recently ; this has made it a controversial phenomenon .
More and more young people tend to live in the social media world most of the time ; this reduces face-to-face human contact , which can affect interpersonal skills and relationships in real life .
First and foremost , we should realize that the social media world is not trustworthy or real .
Everyone could easily make up the personality and characteristics they want ;
they could become anyone .
Although social media does create relationships , relationships and friendships are only firm and real if people have gone through experiences together and have communicated face-to-face .
There is a story of a girl who lived in the social media world every night for eight years .
In a chat room , she created close relationships with eight people .
She talked to them every night , trusted them and shared her life with them .
Then eventually , she discovered that the eight people were actually one person using eight different identities to chat to her all the time .
Furthermore , the convenience of social media is also its weakness .
A lot of people use their true information on social media sites , which can lead to crimes and deception .
People can use this information to deceive family , friends and banks and to do bad things such as blackmail , ATM theft and so on .
Last but not least , social media could affect human interpersonal skills if people increase the time they spend on social media and reject chances to take part in daily social activities as well as to interact with people .
Recent research has shown that the more people spend time on social media sites , the less ambitious they become .
As a result , if the situation keeps following this unexpected trend , there will be a negative effect on younger generations .
To put it in a nutshell , everything has its pros and cons,
including social media .
It is not only convenient and beneficial in connecting people and developing businesses , it can also damage people 's relationships and interpersonal skills .
Social media is only beneficial if we use it in a correct and suitable way , combining both social media sites and daily real life interactions to develop people 's potentials to the fullest .
