Keeping the Secret of Genetic Testing
What is genetic risk ?
Genetic risk refers to your chance of inheriting a disorder or disease .
People get certain diseases because of genetic mutations .
How much a genetic mutation affects the chance of developing a disorder is not always clear .
If the genetic results indicate the presence of gene changes associated with an increased risk of heart disease , it does not mean that heart disease is certain .
The opposite is also true .
If your genetic results show that you do not have mutations associated with an increased risk of heart disease , it is still possible to develop heart disease .
However , for some rare diseases , people who have certain gene mutations are guaranteed to develop the disease .
When we are diagnosed with a certain genetic disease , are we supposed to disclose this result to our relatives ?
My answer is no .
On the one hand , we do not want this potential danger causing frightening effects in our families ' later lives .
When people around us know that we have a disease , their attitudes can be easily changed , whether by caring for us too much or keeping away from us .
And both are not what we want because most of us just want to live as normal people .
Surrounded by such concerns , it is very likely that we are too distracted to worry about these problems .
It is a concern that will be with us during our whole lives , because we will never know when the ''potential bomb' ' will explode .
On the other hand , if there are ways that can help us to control or cure the disease , we can go through these processes with the help of the whole family .
For example , if exercising helps a family lower the risk of potential disease , we can look for more chances for the family to exercise .
Furthermore , we can keep track of all family members ' health conditions .
This also means we are prepared for when other members get this disease .
Here I want to share Forest 's view on this issue have been documented . He writes : "
Although some people feel that an individual who is found to carry a dominant gene for Huntington 's disease has an ethical obligation to disclose that fact to his or her siblings , there currently is no legal requirement to do so .
In fact , requiring someone to communicate his or her own genetic risk to family members who are therefore also at risk is considered by many to be ethically dubious .
"
Nothing is absolutely right or wrong .
If a certain disease 's genetic test is very accurate , and it is unavoidable and necessary to get treatment and be known by others , it is OK to disclose the result .
Above all , life is more important than keeping a secret .
Genetic risk does carry its consequences and should not be taken lightly within the family circle .
After all , what affects one family member may affect another , because families have a common genetic make up , shared with either of the parents .
In cases where an individual has come to know of a genetic disorder , disclosing to his or her relative is solely a matter of preference within the indivdial moral system .
The issue of right to know is highly debatable ; although it is a genetic risk , one can not be entirely sure because the genetic information could result from the families of either parent — one 's maternal and paternal uncles , aunts and cousins .
This also means that as soon a person is made aware of his or her genetic profile , he or she has a knowledge about others ' .
This knowledge may be relevant to them .
An example that may serve as an illustration is breast cancer .
The risk of developing it is hereditary .
Should one who suffers from this disease keep it a secret from their relatives ?
In retrospect , it is also one 's own duty to their undergo periodic health checks .
Sometimes family structure and cultural beliefs can influence the pattern of communication .
Depending on from whom the genetic risk was discovered — the son or daughter , for example — the parent who knows about this would decide who gets told and who takes the precedence in being 'allowed ' to tell .
For example , within a family , regardless of who first received the genetic information , parents are seen as having the primary responsibility to pass on information to any offspring .
In addition , a woman testing positive for BRCA1 would be expected to allow her brother or sister to disclose such information to a niece or nephew rather than to do it herself , although this may be further complicated by an individual 's response to risk information as they might not want to know .
Hence , there are also tensions if participants feel that they can neither pass on information to relatives who need to know ( such as nieces and nephews ) , nor persuade those with the authority ( the parents ) to do so .
The notion of authority also extends 'vertically' .
For example , a grandmother may have more authority to pass on information than an aunt , even if she is not at risk herself , while the aunt is .
From a practitioner 's perspective , these findings are important because if constructs of the family and kinship are a social construct , they may not be in line with geneticists ' views about family relationships , or about which blood ( or non-blood ) relatives should be informed and by whom . This is also likely to be dependent on the cultural and ethnic context .
Ultimately , one must bring attention to who may benefit from such information , and assist those at risk to make considered decisions about disclosure .
Whose duty it is to inform at-risk relatives ( or not ) greatly depends on personal morals and the nature of how 'direct ' the risk is to them .
People with close blood relationships generally carry similar genes .
In the case that a family member or close relative is found to carry a genetic risk , it is better for the patient to tell his/her close relatives about the issue and let others know about the risk so that his/her family members are able to perform some daily exercises to prevent the potential disease , or go to hospital to check for the corresponding genes .
In my opinion , although the announcement of carrying a genetic risk involves the issue of privacy , it is necessary for the carrier to be obligated to tell his/her relatives in order for them to try to prevent the potential disease .
I agree with this statement to a large extent .
Focus on the negative side of the announcement of genetic risk first .
Large numbers of patients with the genetic risk would want to keep it a secret as the genetic risk may indicate their high chance of carrying a certain disease .
Especially for a young unmarried person , if he/she is known to have some genetic risk , it may increase the chance that his/her children will carry the same disease , but not for certain .
Therefore , to keep the information as secret to his/her future spouse would help the relationship .
Secondly , the announcement of the potential risk may cause the family member to become scared of the issue ; although this factor would not be very serious , people would still fear that they will develop some potential disease in the future . They may go to hospital to do additional checks , or take more medicine in order to prevent the disease ; this creats unnecessary costs for the family .
Furthermore , the announcement of genetic risk may affect the relationship with relatives , as sometimes others may think to not stay too close to the carrier so they have less chance of getting the disease .
On the other hand , if the genetic risk is kept secret , although it may benefit the carrier to a certain extent and help to maintain privacy , it has much larger negative impacts on family members and relatives .
Firstly , for the case of marriage , people should be honest and tell their spouses that they may carry certain genetic risks that may affect their offspring .
It is better to let the other party know the fact than a certain type of genetic disease be found after the baby is born .
It is better for both parties to be honest .
Secondly , genetic disease has a close relationship with a person 's daily habits .
For example , if a carrier is told that he/she has a high risk of developing diabetes .
In this case , they can eat fewer candies and chocolates to prevent the intake of too much sugar . At the same time , if the carrier tells this information to their relatives , it will be useful for them to know that they may develop diabetes in the future because of related genes , and they can perform the same exercises to intake less sugar , and prevent the disease .
Otherwise , if the other parties did not know , they may end up with having diabetes in the future , without trying any preventions .
In conclusion , we can see that the benefits of telling carriers ' relatives about their genetic risk outweighs the disadvantages .
Therefore , it would be better for the carrier to be obligated to tell the information to their relatives , in order to let them know and prevent the potential disease through daily exercise .
Among all kinds of different diseases , a large amount of disorders are caused by genetic reasons .
Genetic disorders may or may not be hereditary diseases , and it is sometimes hard to find out that one has these kinds of disease .
It is a long-lasting discussion that whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell their relatives that a disease may be caused by the gene .
From a legal aspect , the answer is 'no ' , but from an ethical aspect , the answer should be 'yes ' .
We can not make a law to push a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell their relatives about their genetic problem .
It is immoral and impractical .
Firstly , someone having some kind of disease is a matter of privacy .
Privacy protection belongs to one 's human rights .
If a law requires someone to tell others their private details , especially when they are not willing to do so .
It is against their human rights and it is against the spirit of the law .
The spirit of the law also includes fairness .
What is the basic difference between genetic disorders and other disorders ?
It is unfair to enact a law only relating to genetic disorders .
In addition , it is impractical to make such a law .
A good law should be clear and easy to execute .
However , there are many problems relating to the execution of requiring a carrier to tell their relatives the cause of their disease .
Firstly , what is the distance to the relatives ?
For example , does the carrier only need to tell their direct like parents , brothers and sisters , or do they also need to tell relatives like their grandmother 's sister 's son 's daughter 's nephew ?
If you say you only need to tell direct relatives , it will be against the fairness of law .
Other relatives may have the same possibilities of developing such a .
How can a law made by government exempt such a group of people from preparing to face a potential disease ?
However , from an ethical point of view .
To the carrier themself , they should have a feeling of responsibility to tell their relatives their genetic disorder .
By doing this , they may be able to save the lives of their relatives .
A carrier with a bad gene may not necessarily develop associated genetic disease if they have a healthy lifestyle before the age that the gene 's function becomes stronger .
A typical example is genetically-caused hypertension .
Hypertension can be caused by genetic problems which make the carrier less able to dissolve fat and salt in blood .
People usually get this kind of hypertesion after they become an adult .
However , if they already know they have a gene that may make them have higher possibilities of getting hypertention .
They can build a daily habit of eating less salt and fat , and thus avoid hypertension .
In a nutshell , our society can not push a risk carrier to tell of their disease to their relatives , but they should be willing to tell their relatives about their genetic problem .
By doing so , fewer of their loved ones will suffer from the genetic problem .
In the age of rapid technological advancement , a lot of medical breakthroughs are made possible .
Genetic testing is made possible and available for one to decide to undergo .
It is possible to detect illnesses diseases , and even a child 's parentage .
However , it becomes a controversial issue when a carrier of a known genetic risk has the dilemma of whether to inform his or her relatives .
If the knowledge of the genetic risk was to be shared with the family or relatives — there is a chance that they have it in their blood — they may take necessary precautions to prevent the illness or disease .
But , if it is a terminal genetic disease , most of the relatives will be disheartened upon finding out about it .
Therefore , some carriers will decide to keep it as a secret .
This essay will discuss whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should tell his or her relatives or not .
Some say that the genetic risk that is found in a person should be kept secret because it is considered as personal information that should be kept confidential .
Most patients will be depressed after realising his or her condition .
If one develops a genetic disease after the test , he or she might not wish to inform the relatives as he or she might end up disheartening his or her extended family .
Some will wish to keep it to themselves and hope that they will not bring any pessimism into their family .
Furthermore , some will wish not to become a burden on anyone , as seeking medical attention is relatively costly .
Hence , some see it as being considerate in keeping the genetic risk of getting the disease confidential .
On the other hand , others may think that it is considerate to tell the relatives because they will have a higher chance of having the same genetic risk .
Hence , they will be able to seek help from medical specialists to find a cure or to take some measures to lower the risk of getting the disease .
Nevertheless , it will depend on the kind of genetic disease , given the context of current medical technology .
For example , breast cancer is a genetic disease and it can be cured if it is realised in the early stages .
Hence , with the knowledge of having a genetic risk , the relatives will do a medical check-up , which might save them by realising it at an earlier stage .
In conclusion , it is considerate to inform relatives of the risk of getting the same genetic disease .
Although there might be a lot of challenges along the way in seeking medical attention , such as financial issues , everyone should be given the right to know their family 's inherented medical conditions .
However , some think that it might be better for those who are ignorant about it and will continue leading a happy life .
In addition , some may think that even knowing about having the genetic risk of the will just add to their misery , as there is nothing that they can do about it .
All-in-all , it depends on the individual and the nature of the disease , but he or she should be obligated to inform the relatives if there are possibilities of curing or preventing it .
Genectic testing is a personal decision , based on the kowledge that there is a possiblity that one could be a carrier or not .
Those who are born into a family with a history of genetic disease should be allowed to undergo genetic testing , even if there is no risk at all .
Early pre-examination is healthy , as it will cast away unwanted doubts and affect the psychological thoughts of those who are affected .
For a genetic risk carrier , there should be choice given with regards to informing his/her relatives .
There should not be force or an obligation to do so , as it may negatively and drastically affect the emotions of the genetic risk carrier .
With regard to the choice given , there must be some rules to regulate and exercise personal freedom of decision making .
If the genetic risk carrier is a minor or a child , then most likely the decision of informing the relative should be made with the consideration of the patient 's parents or legal guardians .
Such patients are still emotionally volatile , or they may be unaware of the consequences of such genetic disorders due to their young age .
Furthermore , the act of informing others without consent from their parents or the patients themselves could harm the psychological state of the affected family .
Thus , much thought is needed from the immediate family as it could cause unwanted events for the patient or the family members themselves .
Some families may feel hurt with regards to their family pride or reputation , on having the knowledge of such genetic disorders running in their family .
However , there is a role and a sense of responsibility to inform relatives , since it is a genetic disorder .
There is a possibility that the genetic disorder could also affect relatives and any other families within the same family tree .
The importance of informing relatives of such genetic diseases is vital , as it may help to raise awareness and increase of the genetic disorder .
Also , this known information will help their relatives to make informed decisions and to silmilarly undergo genetic testing to find out about their genes .
Thus , having the knowledge that such genetic disorders are benign would be beneficial to their emotional thoughts .
And if the results turn out otherwise , then the family can be prepared emotionally and psychologically for the future , and aid them in making decisions .
In addition , the genetic risk carrier would be showered with moral and emotional support from their relatives if it has been made known to them .
Having support from relatives is vital as they assure the genetic risk carrier that they are not alone in facing this illness . Also , it will certainly provide a morale boost , as the whole family will share a common sentiment with regards to the future prospect of the genetic disorder that could be inherited by anyone in the family .
Therefore , the decision to inform relatives of such genetic disorders will be dependent on the situation and background of the affected family , with the liberty of choice given to them in making the decision of whether to inform others .
A person with a disorder , regardless of whether a mental or physical disorder , is always easily able to inform his or her family .
When things come to genetic issues , it is not that simple anymore .
The inheritance of a genetic disorder is from generation to generation , but not all offspring show the relevant symptoms .
Sometimes , a family with a genetic disorder risk may not be able to detect the potential harm inside their bodies , as none of its members display any observable disorder symptoms .
As a result , when one of the members happens to feel uncomfortable or abnormal , he or she should be aware of whether the disorder in his or her body is a genetic risk or not .
Afterwards , , the carrier will face a serious ethical issue , which is whether or not to reveal the problem to his or her relatives .
If the disorder 's symptoms appear on a child and the parent is informed by the medics , then the whole family will stay alert to their bodies ' condition .
On the contrary , if the carrier is an adult who has his or her own choice of whether to inform his or her relatives about the risk , the situation is more complex .
One may think that if the carrier is a caring person who loves his or her family more than him- or herself , there is no doubt that he or she will tell his or her family about the issue .
That is true , and of course it is the obligation of a family member to protect and take care of the family .
Think from the other person 's perspective : if a child of the family knows that he or she has the chance of becoming a genetic risk carrier , and the risk might be inherited by his or her child in the future , his or her whole life will be affected by the dilemma .
And of course , he or she will consider not having any children after getting married , and his or her cousins will consider this as well .
As a result , the family stops reproducing the moment the adult carrier announces his or her issue .
In China , the older generation , with a traditional cultural background , will always think of having more children and grandchildren , to make the family bigger and stronger .
The reason behind this is that after World War II the population of China decreased dramatically , and so the government encouraged the people to have more births .
During that period , if one family member displayed genetic disorder symptoms , he or she certainly fell into an ethical dilemma .
The medical treatment technology during that time was not advanced enough to completely cure patients .
They had to choose whether to protect their family or make their family more prosperous , but with a potential genetic risk .
And so , they would have chosen not to undergo genetic disorder testing , and let the truth be hidden forever .
This kind of ethical issue can not be judged by others because they would not understand the position and duty of the carrier in the family .
In conclusion , people should think carefully about the consequences of telling relatives about their genetic disorder issues .
It is an obligation for a carrier to inform his or her relatives , but also an obligation for a family member to liven up the family .
Regardless of whether the disorder is rarely fatal , or does not cause any inconvenience to the carrier , revealing the truth is always the right thing to do .
In my opinion , the carrier of a genetic disorder should tell his or her relatives about the disorder .
One of the reasons is because , as a carrier , he or she needs mental support to endure the situation .
It would be hard for an individual to deal with the issue on his or her own .
By telling his or her family , as well as offering support , they can possibly help in finding alternative solutions to the problem that the sufferer is facing .
Other than that , I believe that the stong bond one has with one 's families is the biggest pillar of support to a carrier .
Furthermore , as it is a genetic problem , it is better for a carrier to inform his or her family , as other family members might experience the same thing .
By making sure that they are aware of this genetic problem , they could have a full check-up for themselves , and it would be better if they could even prevent it from happening to themselves .
I find that it is important to inform , especially if it is contagious , so the carrier could prevent the disease from spreading .
For every action there are always pros and cons .
I believe that some of the carriers choose to not reveal their disease to the family members as they do not want to make their family members worry and feel uncomfortable , or even because the carrier does not want to feel ostracized by their family .
Furthermore , as it could involve spending a lot of money on treatments , the carrier might not want to be a burden on their family .
I could understand the sentiment of such a carrier :
they do not want to be the source of unhappiness in the family .
However , we will never know whether these negative effects will happen when the carrier decides to tell his or her family of his or her condition .
In conclusion , personally I feel that it is better for the carrier to inform family members about the issue .
The carrier should be honest with his or her feelings , and I believe that it is the right of the family member to know what is going on to his or her life .
If anything wrong happened to the carrier without informing the family members , it would be a huge regret in their lives .
On top of that , it is better to think about solutions to the problem with the family members , as there would be more minds to think about it than thinking about it and struggling on your own .
In the end , I believe that support , mental or even monetary , from the family could help the carrier to fight against the genetic disease .
True enough , there are lots of cancer patients who were given a second chance to live as a normal person , as they had strong mental support from their loved ones .
In my opinion , as long as we keep our mind healthy and strong , we can fight any disease .
Technology has reached a stage whereby the advancement triggers some ethical dilemmas .
Itt has become easy to tell if one is a carrier of a known genetic risk through genetic testing .
If used for a good purpose , it can prevent unnecessary unhappiness . However , it could also make the situation worse by revealing who the carrier is in the family .
The question given is whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives , and I think that the carrier should not be obligated to do so because I believe that he or she has right not to tell .
Firstly , genetic testing is not something that is compulsory .
Of course , some people may do it to make their future slightly happier . However , the carrier , before the testing , can choose not to go for the test , and simply live with unknowns and accept the consequences .
If he or she chooses to live with the uncertainty of what their genes hold , he or she could do that — it was something that was 'normal ' to everyone in the past , as gentic testing was not possible .
It could be better for him or her this way .
Some people might say that it is a form of prevention of giving birth to disabled lives and making them suffer .
I personally think this is the right purpose of going through the genetic testing , so that a family who can not afford to have a disabled child do not have to give birth to one , and make the entire family suffer .
However , I belive that the carrier has the right not to tell anyone , but has a responsibility to take action to prevent any ethical dilemmas .
If the result turns to be something that the carrier can not accept , then it would have been better not knowing the truth .
I belive that even the carrier has the right not to know the truth .
After realizing the he or she is the carrier , the emotional damage would be hard to bear .
It could possibly cause a problem and create more unhappiness in the family .
Overall , I believe that it entirely depends on the carrier to share the hard facts , and face them with relatives , but he or she has no obligation to tell .
In fact , I strongly think that the carrier should weigh both the positive and negative consequences of taking the genetic tests and take appropriate action , based on the results .
The emotional depression that the carrier might get and the sense of guilt can be more than expected , and could be a burden in their mind for the rest of their life .
On the other hand , without knowing about any genetic disorders , the family will stay positive and work together to overcome the diability .
I think the family will stay mentally healty as it is , without the emotional stress .
Debates that ask whether a carrier for a known genetic risk should be obligated to inform his or her relatives have been around for years .
Any individual at risk of a disorder has the right to undergo genetic testing , but whether the results should be made known to others , especially close family or relatives , is a topic that is worth discussing .
This is an issue that needs to be addressed , as family-related ethical dilemmas are involved .
In this essay , a arguments will be pointed out that support the view that any carrier of that known genetic risk should tell his or her relatives .
When we were born we were surrounded by our family and relatives , with them welcoming us to this new world .
We were crying hard but we were not alone ; it was our family and relatives that raised us .
Hence , they should be the people we are grateful for and the people we would like to share our joy with .
However , in the case pertaining to any health issues , to the extent of serious disorder , it may seem pointless to share , but this involves more than just the sharing of bad news .
One definitely has the right to disclose one 's health issues to anyone , but it is also one 's responsibility to inform family and close relatives .
In the case of health issues related to genetic risk , the word " genetic " highlights the risk of passing down the disorder to the next generation .
Therefore , I would agree that it should be for a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell his or her relatives , to avoid any family-related ethical dilemmas that could arise in the future .
Although one may argue that it is still up to the individual to disclose such health issues or to bear it within him/herself , it is certainly helpful to share with close relatives for a proper discussion about solutions .
By doing so , one will feel less stressful in facing such disorder risks .
Relatives will certainly be supportive and show more care towards the carrier of a known genetic risk .
By informing them , the carrier is never alone in fighting the battle of such disorder risks .
On top of that , as the genetic risk may pass down to next generation , it will involve more than just one family member .
It is therefore that I would agree to the obligation to tell the relatives of both parties when one is about to get married and has plans to having children .
This would avoid the issue of more family-related ethical dilemmas .
There are more intangible advantages that could support the standpoint of informing the relatives once the results are known , after the test is conducted .
In conclusion , in order to avoid the family-related ethical dilemma , it is best for any carrier of a known genetic risk to inform his/her relatives .
The benefits of doing so are able to outweigh its disadvantages .
More support must be provided through different means to give better direction when one is standing at such such a of whether to inform the relatives .
The decision to undergo genetic testing can only be made by the individual at risk of a disorder .
This is the common law in society .
However , it leads to a new question : should a carrier of a known genetic risk be obligated to tell his or her relatives ?
This issue has been discussed for a long time .
However , there is still a range of points of view among the people .
Thus , we are going to identify the advantages and disadvantages of the issue of " should or should not " .
Firstly , I believe most would agree with the sentence , " I would be anxious about my family member if he or she told me that he or she was a carrier of a known genetic risk " .
Frequently , the intention of the carriers in is not wanting to tell their families is to continue their own lives without the anxieties of their families .
It is obvious to them that it would be better for one person to be worried than many .
However , many of the carriers are not strong enough to overcome the challenges themselves .
With their families ' support , there would be more energy to fight the demon .
Demons are not easily defeated , and it requires much energy and psychological support .
Families give you the courage and support which you can not give yourself .
That is the most essential element in overcoming challenges .
Besides that , known genetic risks are so serious that they can not be described .
The seriousness can be larger than our imagination .
Lying in bed for the remainder of one 's , and even dying immediately , are consequences that we can not imagine .
Families are dearest in our lives .
Without their concern and support , we find it difficult to keep on going .
They play an important role in our lives which can not be substituted .
A known genetic risk can also critically affect our next generation .
Therefore , it is our responsibility to tell our relatives , to prevent the occurrence of undesired consequences .
Generally , the clinic or hospital will not tell the carrier 's families without the consent of the carrier .
It is ethical of staff in hospitals to keep the secret of any patient .
We can not blame them for undesired consequences .
However , a hospital can provide a councillor to advise the carrier about the actions that can be taken .
Therefore , these kind of circumstances will not happen again and again .
It is a method that benefits both parties , which is a win-win situation .
In conclusion , a carrier of a known genetic risk is encouraged to tell his or her relatives about the known genetic risk .
However , there may be some special cases that are hard to be defined .
Thus , advice from hospitals plays an important role .
The carrier is responsible for balancing his or her own interests and the benefits of their family , and even society .
It is a hard decision to make , but the most appropriate way will create great circumstances for the carrier and families in the future .
With the risk of genetic disorders , many individuals have made the decision to undergo genetic testing .
When results become known after the tests have been done , each individual that is diagnosed to be a genetic risk carrier faces an ethical problem : they should warn their relatives about the risk of also being a genetic risk carrier .
Or they can choose to keep silent until the next carrier is diagnosed .
From my point of view , a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives , with the support of the following reasons .
First of all , from the angle of human rights , a genetic risk carrier should not be obligated to tell the truth to others .
This argument can be regarded as a kind of privacy to carriers .
They may not want this truth to influence their life , or they may want to keep it as a secret and not let others know about it .
This is reasonable , since the exposure of the truth of being a carrier may make them be discriminated against or sympathised by others , which is not a positive factor to be brought into their life .
Secondly , the relatives of the carrier can also choose to do genetic testing regardless of the diagnosis of the carrier .
When people want to check whether they are genetic risk carriers , they can approach a doctor to consult them about it .
If they do not want to think too much about it , and view it as a problem , they may just ignore the possibility .
However , if a dignosed carrier is obligated to tell his or her relatives , the relatives will be forced to know their higher chance of being genetic risk carriers .
This means they have to accept the truth , which may make their lives miserable .
Many people argue that setting the obligation may help more people who are the relatives of the carriers , saving their lives with a larger probability because of early diagnosis .
However , this is not exactly true when other factors , including psychological and social influence , are taken into consideration .
If one such relative is told that he or she may have a higher risk of getting sick , he or she may be scared about the uncertainty of life ; partners , spouses and colleagues may choose to leave them . Many other situations may happen , which means the relative 's life may be ruined .
On the other side , as stated above , a person who wants to confirm , and has been prepared to face , the result can choose to do the genetic testing individually .
In a nutshell , a carrier of a known genetic risk should have their own right to decide whether to tell their relatives or not .
This should be accepted because of human rights , freedom of acceptance of relatives , as well as many other social reasons .
Otherwise , making it an obligation will restrict the choice of carriers and bring a lot of confusion to their relatives .
For a carrier of a genetic disorder to know the fact that he or she is a carrier , it causes more dilemmas than getting the disorder .
I agree that a carrier of a known genetic risk is obligated to tell his or her relatives .
There are four reasons why people do n't have to be shy and can share their problems regarding genetic disorders .
Firstly , the carrier and his or her family can take precautions , both physically , by taking actions to reduce the chance of it being inherited by offspring , and mentally , if the action fails to prevent it from being inherited .
Many syndromes such as Down Syndrome and Taylor Syndrome can be prevented from happening if the mother takes proper medication and does not consume harmful goods during the pregnancy period .
This information may not be known by the mother if she does n't tell her relatives about her condition .
The more people ( relatives ) know her problem , the more information can be provided .
If all efforts have been made but the children still suffer from the syndrome , then the family have to accept this fact and do whatever they can to make a good environment for their children 's growth .
This is not the parent 's fault , because there is still a chance of the gene being inherited .
So they also have to prepare mentally .
Secondly , the treatment and medication for genetic diseases cost dearly .
Albinism is one of the examples .
The people with albinism have sensitive skin and it needs regular treatment .
Unlike people with a high proportion of skin pigment , people with albinism are prone to sunburn and skin diseases .
If they do n't treat their body well , such as by using sunglasses or wearing sunscreen outdoors , the chances are good that they will get skin problems , which may also lead to cancer .
Once you suffer from cancer , the cost of medication is very expensive .
To prevent the bigger problem from happening , it takes a lot of effort to take care of your body .
If the carrier does n't tell his or her relatives , it may be too late to get their support and prepare financially .
Thirdly , some diseases are not noticeable and may lead to serious health problems .
One of the diseases is sickle cell trait .
Usually people are not aware if they carry the sickle cell gene , and this may lead to circulatory problem such as blood blocking .
If the parents know that one of them is a carrier and disclose the information to their relatives , then they can bring their children to undergo genetic testing . They do n't need to be shy of it because it is for the sake of their children 's health .
Fourthly , it is important for the parents to give a mental boost to their children with a genetic disorder .
When their children become teenagers , a lot of social problems may arise .
People and friends may often mock their condition .
A strong mental state and conviction must be built from within and from their closest ones .
If not their family then who else will be willing to do that ?
It is not a difficult job for the family if they have prepared mentally first by disclosing the information of the probability that their children may suffer from the genetic disorder .
In this modern world , technologies have improved a lot , compared with the last century .
Particularly in the medical field , there has been a great improvement in many treatments for many formerly incurable diseases , and genetic testing is one of the methods that are used to diagnose an individual at risk of a genetic disorder .
The medical authorities claim that only the individual who is at risk of a genetic disorder can make the decision to undergo genetic testing .
However , once a test has been conducted and the results are known , a family-related ethical dilemma is born .
The question is whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should tell his or her relatives .
In my opinion , the carrier of a known genetic risk has to tell his or her relatives about it .
This is because his or her relatives have the right to know about it .
As many people realize , a genetic disorder can be related to the carrier 's relatives . That is , one of the family members at risk of a genetic disorder means that other family members have almost the same risk of having it , so this problem should be treated seriously by the family .
Every family member has a human right to know what is going on with them .
If they do not even know that they are at risk of a genetic disorder , how can they exercise their right ?
For instance , John is informed by his doctor that he is at risk of a genetic disorder but he does not tell his sibling , James , about this .
Although telling James about it is horrible to some extent , he should know what will be likely going on for him .
It might be beneficial to his future if he were aware of the risk of having this disorder .
The next point is that telling relatives can raise their awareness of having similar genetic disorders , preventing certain genetic disorders from affecting them .
Genetic disorders are innate , but the great improvement of medical treatments makes it possible for humans to prevent the disorder , or to reduce the negative effects of the disorder .
In addition , doctors usually quote a statement , " Prevention is better than cure " ; this gives us the idea that preventing a disorder from happening has far more advantages than curing it .
Awareness of having a genetic disorder may help in diagnosing a person with a genetic disorder , and therefore this may make the prevention of a certain disorder possible .
For example , hypertension is partially due to genetic factors , but environmental factors also play an important role .
People who aware of having such a disorder can prevent the disorder from happening by adapting a healthy lifestyle , including having a balanced diet and exercising for at least 30 minutes every day .
To sum up , a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
It is their human right to know about it , and it may also save their lives by preventing the disorder from happening .
Together with the advancement of technology over past decades , medical advancement has increased exponentially , and further enhancements are still constantly upgrading . Empowering doctors with advanced medical knowledge , doctors are able to diagnose and run genetic testing of patients , to help them prevent and take the necessary steps to protect their life . However , once a test has been conducted and the results are known , the question of disclosing the results to his or her relatives becomes a challenging issue to both patient and doctor . In my opinion , I feel a strong urge to support the obligation to inform patients ' relatives .
As it is a genetic risk , the patient 's next-of-kin might have a high chance of carrying the risk , hence the need to inform relatives is important , so that necessary prevention actions can be taken before unforeseen circumstances occur . For example , if you are the only child in a family and unfortunatelyyou are unfortunately suffering from a genetic disease from a genetic trait that might be passed on to your next generation if you have a child , making your family members aware of the situation , it would reduce the family stress and suffering of forcing you to settle down and have children . However , social ethical issues like discrimination and privacy are the biggest concerns of and potential barriers to enforcing patients or doctors to disclose information to patients ' relatives . It challenges the confidentiality and privacy principles . Currently , under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ( HIPAA ) in the United States , there is no legal obligation to disclose information to relatives ; it is up to the patient 's wishes to disclose to their family members . Early disclosure to family members brings a positive reaction and prevention , as in the case of Angelina Jolie : she chose to disclose information and underwent treatment to reduce the risk of breast cancer significantly to under five percent . I can still recall the reason for disclosing her own story was that she does not want to live under the shadow of cancer .
However , there are still people against the decision of revealing private information . As in the case of Alzheimer patients , it is up to the patient 's own choice to disclose information . However , research has shown that doctors have tried to interpret how and to whom Alzheimer disease should be disclosed to minimise potential negative impacts on families members ( DementiaToday , 2012 ) .There are associations to provide help to Alzheimer patients like Alzheimer 's Association ( Alzheimer 's Association , 1980 ) . Although there are still thousands of genetic risk diseases out there that are not receiving enough help and support from everyone , the need to receive immediate understanding and support from family members is something that patients need in their difficult time .
In conclusion , the state should pass a legal bill to measure and provide information to doctors that outlines when a doctor should opt to reveal to relatives about the genetic disease and in which situations it is up to the patient 's decision . In addition , the state could also encourage the creation of assistance schemes to aid needy patients in encouraging them to open up for the benefit of themselves and family members . Although the bill may face challenges of social ethical issues , in the long term , with appropriate encouragement and aid from the government , more individuals would have a different view of acceptance , and take appropriate measurements to protect their and their loved ones ' health
Nowadays , the study of genetics has gone further and further due to high-velocity technological advancement .
Not long ago , the human genome project , sponsored by several large multinational corporations ( MNCs ) , was started .
In comparison , in the field of genetic testing , which enables people to be aware of the risk of a possible genetic disorder , as the technology is very mature already , an even more popular topic arises .
While most people agree that each individual has their own right to decide whether to undergo a genetic test or not , they have different positions on whether it is the patient 's responsibility or the patient 's to share the result with his or her relatives .
In my opinion , patients that are carriers of some known genetic risk are supposed to share the truth with their family members .
Admittedly , it is a social obligation to be responsible for the lives of other people .
To the whole society , it is a duty .
Take H1N1 as an example : all the people in Singapore — including students at school , travelers at the Changi Airport , workers in the office as well as passengers on the street — are forced by law to take their temperature and report the result to the relevant government authority in charge .
To those family members who care about them , it is also a moral obligation .
How can they not tell their loved ones who they really are , and instead put their loved ones in danger ?
The basis of family is that everyone trusts and loves each other unconditionally .
Without trust and love , there is no difference between a family and a bunch of strangers living together .
Hence , it is essential to tell family members about their risk of genetic disorder , both as a social responsibility and a favor to conserve the family basis .
Moreover , telling family members the truth is the fastest and easiest way to get their support .
Without the support of loved ones , a patient 's life is no better than death .
Family members , as one the closest groups of people from whom they can get comfort , is a crucial factor in successfully getting over any possible troubles as a result of genetic disorder .
A study by New York University in 2010 showed that patients with family members around generally recover 2-4 days faster than those taken of by professional nurses .
Even for those patients with terminal diseases , the duration of their survival is 30 % longer due to the family support .
Some people may say that telling the truth may raise some unnecessary doubts and panics , which will endanger the family harmony .
While every family needs to go through these kinds of troublesome situation , the more troubles that a family has gone through together , the greater the bond established between the family members will be , as well as a greater amount of trust , love and understanding .
Hence , for a family in which every member truly believes in each other and loves each other , all these troubles are just trials to make them stronger .
Just as in the lyrics of Kelly Clarkson , what does n't kill you makes you stronger .
Being in an Asian society where genetic testing is not a common practice , I do think that it is the choice of the patient whether he or she wants to tell his or her relatives about his or her disease .
Having the courage to take the genetic tests and yet to not inform their relatives about the risk that they may have , may result in people being judgmental , while actually it is just a risk and not a confirmed case .
Furthermore , since it is the person 's gene that is affected , he has the right to determine with whom he wants to share the information .
Nevertheless , while I feel that a carrier should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives about the genetic risk , I would like to suggest the person to at least share the information with her or his partner ( husband or wife ) since the individual 's genetic risk may affect their future children .
Many people in our society are not well informed about many genetic diseases , and many of them will most likely judge or at least differentiate those who have genetic diseases , since they feel that the patients are abnormal or 'weird' .
This is because many relate 'genetic diseases ' to those such as Bubble-Boy disease , autism or Down syndrome .
In those diseases , many who are affected have different physical characteristics compared to those without the genetic disease .
While we do know that we should not discriminate against them based on their limitations , many people still do it with or without realizing .
In this particular case , we are discussing whether a person should tell his relatives about him having a risk of a particular genetic disease .
It is normal for people to demand fair treatment similar to others , and therefore it is normal for people to try to keep some of their secrets or personal issues to themselves , in case some people judge them or treat them differently . Many people really love to hear what they want to hear , and therefore they may just ignore the word 'risk ' and assume that the person has suffered from the disease .
To prevent that from happening , I do feel that it is up to the person whether he wants to share the information with his family since his family may either be paranoid or judge him and act differently .
Especially when it is just a risk , the option is really his since he is not an actual sufferer .
There may be some people who say that it is necessary to tell family members about the risk since some of them may be affected . While I do think that this view has a point , how much you can trust your family regarding this issue may also be an issue .
Maybe we can trust our immediate family members , but can we really trust all the other relatives ?
Furthermore , since genetic risk or genetic disease is a very personal issue , it is the person 's call to tell the relatives about it .
However , as I said earlier , it is better for the person to at least tell partner , about the potential risk to his or her future partner , since his genetic risk may affect his children later .
This information needs to be at least acknowledged by the other party before they make the decision to get married and have children .
There may be situations where both the husband and wife are carriers , and therefore they should not have a child since they may not be able to survive , even once they are born .
Or , in a less extreme case , the child may be disabled .
This piece of information does play a role in family planning matters , therefore although no one is obliged to tell anyone about their genetic risk , they should be encouraged to tell their future partner .
In conclusion , whether or not the carrier wants to tell his relatives about his genetic risk , the choice is his because it is his own gene and he has the full right to choose .
He may have different considerations other than the judgment of people , or whether it will result in making his family worry for nothing , but no matter what choice he makes , we need to respect it . We have no right in saying that he must tell his relatives about it .
We all know that life is priceless and we have no right to judge a person 's death .
With the improvements of technology , a new life with a genetic risk can be detected .
'Genetic risk ' refers to the chance of inheriting a disorder or disease .
Therefore , an entirely new dilemma is born : should a carrier of a known genetic risk be obligated to tell his or her relatives ?
This essay will discuss the reasons why the relatives are obligated to be informed that their children have a genetic risk .
One of the reasons that the parents should be informed is that they have to decide whether they are capable of raising a child with a genetic risk .
The child with the genetic risk may not have the ability to work , to build up the family with others , and , most of the time , they are unacceptable to the majority .
They may not able to enjoy the normality others enjoy .
This competitive world is cruel to those not able to survive .
Parents and relatives have to work endlessly and longer than expected to raise their child if he/she is not able to foster himself/herself .
The situation may become worse if the child has a disease like cancer or heart disease , which means that parents have another problem , namely medical fees .
Not only the child , but also the entirely family will suffer .
It is still early for parents to decide whether they can foster a new life that is not able to work , and that may suffer pain their entire life .
The other reason that parents should know that the baby they have is a carrier of genetic risk is for the nation 's good .
There are always newspaper reports that a newborn baby has been abandoned at hospital after the parents realized the baby has diseases that need a huge amount of money to secure .
Countries like Singapore are short of manpower to contribute to the nation .
However , every year the government has to spend a lot to help the disabled , such as on medical subsidies and building special schools to educate them .
By not increasing the number of disabled people in a nation , the government is able to concentrate on developing in other areas like the military or education .
Citizens of a nation have the responsibility to support their country in many ways .
Moreover , in the world we are living in today , many abortions are conducted in hospital every day .
It is easier for people to accept them morally .
Therefore , I believe the parents have the right to know the healthiness of their child .
Many people may support the theory that every person has a right to enjoy the world , especially religious people .
However , the problem is , will people really enjoy their lives if they have to stay in hospital every day , with all the needles and endless pain ?
Parents know what is best for their children , thus they will make the right decision after they have be informed .
Also , human beings should improve the medical field in order to prevent a tragedy from happening .
I think a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
Genetic testing is a personal choice .
One should have the full control of his/her information and it is his/her right to decide whether or not to disclose it to someone else .
As far as I am concerned , when a couple is going to have a baby , they are going to run a few tests to see whether they could have any genetic diseases .
The results are disclosed to the husband and wife .
This is not the case I am talking about here .
The most obvious reason for those who argue for this opinion is that the relatives of the carrier are at high risk of carrying these diseases .
They have the right to know whether they are at risk .
Also , telling them the result can let them significantly reduce the cost of multiple testing .
They can also take immediate measures to reduce the possibility of developing this disease .
Say a person has disease C that might be the result of gene A .
He runs a test and discovers that he has the gene AA .
This means both of his parents have gene A , and they are both under high risk of having disease C. They could save the cost of runing two separate tests to see whether they are under high risk of having disease C. Now say the person runs the test and finds that he has the gene Aa .
This means only one of his parents has gene A , and the cost of one test could be saved .
His relatives can then take measures , if this disease can somehow be prevented , to stop this disease from taking their lives .
However , this can also be achieved by personal choice .
One can choose to tell their relatives if they are at risk .
Most people care about their relatives ; if there is no serious consequence of telling them , I assume most of them will tell their relatives to be careful .
One might also choose to hint or encourage their certain relatives to take a gene test if they are concerned about the negative consequences that come when they disclose their genetic results .
There are possible negative consequences that people might face if they disclose their genetic results to their relatives .
If a person is obliged to tell his/her relatives , he or she might be discriminated against by those who do not carry this gene .
He or she might even be advised not to get married or have children .
For example , if an unmarried person has gene Aa and gene aa is sufficient for a very serious disease .
After he takes the test he is obliged to tell his relatives , everyone will know that he is a carrier .
So all the married couples go take a test and know they are not carriers . They might subconsiously see him as different and worry that he will find a wife who carries this gene as well .
Thirdly , it is hard to define 'relatives ' .
If a gene runs in the family and one of the family members tests positive , whom does he need to tell ?
If it is a big family , is he obliged to tell everyone ?
Spouses usually have very close relationships : so if person A tell his family that he has this gene , his uncle C knows and will tell his wife D that he needs to take a test because his cousin has a risk of disease .
However , wife D is not even under risk of having this disease .
Then wife D might tell her mother who likes to gossip on her way to the theatre .
In less than a week half of the town knows person A has a risk of disease , and that his family might be at risk .
Then nobody wants to marry person A or his relatives .
This is the potential consequence if one does not have full control of his/her information , especially when the party that he is obliged to disclose his information to is a potentially large group ( relatives ) .
In conclusion , a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
Carriers of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell their relatives .
Nowadays , people not only pursue the comfort of their own life but also better development of future generations .
Since the technology of modern society has become so advanced , it has been possible for people to make the decision to take a genetic test so as to find out whether or not they carry a genetic risk that can affect the next generation .
The debatable question , an ethical dilemma , is whether people are responsible for telling their relatives that they carry a known genetic risk .
In my opinion , the responsibility of telling family and relatives is quite obvious .
And there are two basic reasons .
The first is the importance of being responsible for your wellness , and the health of your relatives . The second reason is being responsible for future generations .
The awareness of your relatives and families about your genetic risk is good for your wellness and the health of your relatives .
If you are carrying that genetic risk , then there is a large possibility that your relatives , like parents or siblings , are carrying the same genetic risk as well .
The genetic risk that you carry may or may not affect your health and put you in danger .
If you have n't undergone the genetic testing , it 's just odds and fate which determine what will happen to both you and your relatives .
However , if you have undergone testing and know that you are a carrier , you are responsible for your whole family .
Even though you can not eliminate the risk completely , you can at least try to be alert to avoid getting the disease .
As for those in your family who are more likely to be affected , they can go to the hospital to take the checks regularly .
Therefore , telling the family and the relatives to get prepared for fighting the disease and even preventing getting the disease is your responsibility .
Furthermore , you are also responsible for future generations to tell the truth that you are a carrier of a genetic risk .
If your wife is not aware of the truth and gives birth to the baby , it will be possible for your child to carry the same genetic risk as well .
Being the parent , you are not responsible for future generations if you allow genetic risk to be passed on generation by generation while being aware of it .
However , if you tell the truth to your wife and relatives , you offer a chance to have the child or not .
And if you still decide to have the baby , since the technology has been developed so much , it might be possible in the future that the technology to alter genes is perfected and widely used , so you can then choose to give birth to babies and give them a brighter future .
This is the responsibility of being a parent .
And in my opinion , this seems to be the main purpose of undergoing genetic testing in the first place .
In conclusion , once you have undergone genetic testing and are aware of carrying some specific genetic risk , there are responsibilities to your relatives , yourself , and your following generations to tell them the truth .
To tell or not to tell
Consider the following : we decide to undergo genetic testing and find out the results .
We find that we are a genetic risk carrier .
The situation is troublesome , because we do n't know whether we should tell our relatives who may carry this genetic risk as well .
There are a lot of things we need to consider .
Every choice we make may have a huge impact on their life .
As a result , what should we do ?
Tell them or keep it secret until we die ?
Many people feel that we should tell our relatives since we really care about their health statuses .
For example , diabetes is a kind of genetic disease .
If we find we carry this genetic risk , it is better for us to tell our family members because they may carry it as well .
If we tell them , they may start paying more attention to their daily habits like eating less sugar-containing food and maintaining a good mood .
It is especially for young people :
the earlier we tell them , the better habits they will form and maintain for the rest of their lives .
What 's more , they may undergo genetic testing as well to see whether they are carrying it or not , which is also better for them .
However , some people may ask why we want to interfere with their lives .
Sometimes it becomes extremely hard for them to accept the news , especially if they are finding out that they or their descendants may have a severe disease like blood disease , which is untreatable .
Imagine you are living a normal life , but suddenly one day your relative comes and tells you that actually there is a possibility that you may encounter some disease in the future , what kind of feelings are you going to have ?
It may affect your daily life , and you will think about it every day .
You become so anxious that you can not focus on everything .
At the same time , there will also be a chance that the genetic test result is not correct , which means you are actually wasting your life worrying about this thing , so actually they are bringing trouble to you .
Personally , I feel that we still should fulfil our responsibility to tell our relatives the situation .
Since this will really affect their lives , what we should do is to try to frame it in a positive way .
We can not let it go .
We should know that although we may affect their lives , we can still let them make the correct choices in the future .
It is only after we tell them that they will start paying attention to their health .
They will consider whether to give birth to a new baby because of this genetic problem , and they will start finding ways to try to avoid their baby from carrying this genetic risk as well .
They always have a choice about whether to undergo the genetic test or not .
Maybe after we tell them , they will go for it and know more about themselves .
I know it will have a huge impact on them , but they should know that they are our loved ones , we need to tell them and help them .
A genetic risk carrier should be obliged to tell
Genetic testing is conducted when an individual is at risk of some disease .
Once the test is done , whether the results should be open to his or her relatives has caused extensive social controversy .
Some say it is a kind of invasion of privacy for the carrier and should be protected .
He or she has the right not to tell anyone .
However , in my opinion , it is the obligation of a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell his or her relatives about his or her actual situation .
This essay will illustrate my argument in two aspects .
First of all , it can be alarming for the family members of the patient to be made aware of the high risk of disease that they may have .
As we all know , genetic risk carriers are likely to pass the genes to their family members .
Once one person in the family is found to be carrying genetic risk , they know other members in his or her family may also have the risk of disease .
Some of the diseases may not show symptoms until the carrier is older .
Therefore , telling the relatives about the situation may help avoid a lot of trouble , and allow time for proper treatment .
Sometimes a life may even be saved if they are told early and conduct timely treatment .
So for the consideration of the other family members , the relatives should be informed .
Secondly , it can avoid genetic disease being passed to the next generation .
A genetic risk carrier should let their spouse know about his or her situation before marriage .
They need to ask for their doctor 's advice before they plan to have a baby .
Some genetic genes will pass only to boys rather than girls , and vice versa .
If the carrier refuses to tell the truth to his or her spouse , another life may have the risk of inheriting the genetic disease .
I noticed a story in the newspaper years ago .
A couple in China had a five-year-old son .
Their son unfortunately fell ill and he was diagnosed with a kind of genetic disease that is very serious .
They were told that the wife 's family was carrying the polygenetic disorder and can pass only to boys rather than girls .
Therefore their son inherited the genetic disease .
However , the wife had actually already known about the polygenetic disorder before the marriage and she did not tell her husband .
The son died after a year 's treatment and the couple got divorced later after that .
If the wife had not hid the truth , and instead asked for her doctor 's advice before they had the baby , the tragedy would not have happened .
In a nutshell , a carrier of a known genetic risk has the responsibility to tell his or her relatives .
On the one hand , telling members of the carrier 's family about the possible disease they may have , and they can perform treatment in time if possible .
On the other hand , if the carrier hides the truth , the disease may be passed to the next generation .
Nowadays , with the advancement of technology , it is easy to do genetic testing .
We can not deny that genetic testing really helps people a lot when they problems with a disorder .
However , I think that genetic information is a person 's personal privacy , which should be protected by the law .
Therefore , I think a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives .
There are three reasons , as follows .
Firstly , information concerning one 's genetics is something personal , like one 's bank card PIN .
Other people should not be told without the person 's permission , even if they are his or her family or relatives .
The government should make laws to protect this kind of privacy .
Once somebody 's genetic information is told to other people .
They know of the person 's potential diseases or other bad things .
They may form a bias against this person , or even abandon him or her .
People do not have the ability to choose their genes , they should not be thought badly of because of a bad gene .
So I think regardless of what the genetics are or whether the person 's genes match their parents ' , it should not be told to anyone , even his or her family or relatives .
Secondly , the carrier of a known genetic risk may destroy the peace of a family , or even break the relationships between children and the adult .

However happy they were before , some barriers would appear that would gradually truly destroy the family .
The relationship between parents and their children is not only genetic ; it is something much deeper and tighter .
Parents give knowledge and love to the children , meanwhile they feel happy in the company of their children .
Children rely on their parents to survive .
When they grow up , they take care of their old parents and thank them for their dedication .
The relationship between parents and children is about love and dedication .
Everyone does not want to see the scene of a family broken due to the carrier of a known genetic risk .
Therefore , I think a known genetic risk should not be told about to family or relatives without the carrier 's permission .
Finally , the technology of testing genes is not very mature yet .
There also exists the probability of false results .
If the mistake is not found by the doctor , the family and children may be sad and struggle for their whole life .
Therefore I think a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives .
Therefore , considering people 's privacy and the existence of false results , for the peace of the family , I support the notion that a known genetic risk carrier should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives .
A Carrier of a Known Genetic Risk Should be Obligated to Tell His or Her Relatives
More and more , illnesses are discovered to be related to some gene , thanks to the development of medical technology .
People will know about whether they carry a higher risk of disease from their genes after they take the genetic test .
If there are no problems , that is wonderful .
However , not everybody is so lucky that they can make sure they do not carry any disease genes .
Therefore , once people find they carry the disease genes , they should be obligated to tell their relatives , or at least their family members .
It may be awkward and embarrassing for a person to tell relatives that he or she is a carrier of a known genetic risk .
But they are all from one family and have the same forefathers , so of course they have the same genes in some part .
Therefore there is nothing to be shy or afraid of .
If the person tells their relatives that he or she carries a disease gene , his or her relatives can go to hospital to check whether they also have a disease gene .
Then the relatives can prepare themselves for preventing the disease from occurring .
Also , they can prevent the disease from passing to their offspring .
If the relatives carry that disease gene , they can share the experience with him or her and give some help . They will also teach him or her how to communicate with others about the issue .
If he or she do not get married , he or she must tell his or her partner that he or she carries the disease gene .
Then they can have a healthy baby with the help of doctors .
Otherwise , if he or she holds back the genetic risk , they may have an unhealthy baby and may cause the death of the baby or the end of their marriage .
There is a story I watched on TV .
A couple did not have a child after their marriage for a long time . Their parents were anxious about this and asked them to go to hospital to check what the problem was .
After they came back from the hospital , the man told his parents that the problem was that he carried a disease gene , so they can not have a baby in their lifetime .
The woman did not know the test result , but she overheard the conversation and decided to divorce her husband .
After he received the divorce certificate , the man showed her the test report . It said that the woman carried the disease gene , not the man .
Now the woman knew how much her husband loved her , but she ruined their happiness .
Tears did nothing .
People can not avoid carrying the disease genes that they are born with .
However , they can avoid the disease genes being inhered by their children .
By telling their relatives that they may have a risk of carrying the disease gene , they can make their family members bond closely , and many risks and conflicts can be avoided .
Genetic testing has become a beneficial way to predict and protect each individual at risk of a disorder .
However , there rises a family-related ethical dilemma : if it is right to tell a carrier 's family once the test has been conducted and the results are known .
I am most inclined to believe that his or her relatives have the right to know the result .
The answer is simply that everyone , especially our family , has the right to know the truth .
Though it is said that genetic testing involves emotional and social risks due to the test results , while the potential negative impacts of the risk still exist , the consequence will be significant if other members of his or her family do not know .
They would be unable to have a suitable method of protecting themselves , or take emotional preparations .
Take Angeline Jolie for example : she is famous , but she still revealed the truth about her genetic testing on the development of her breast cancer risk .
Everything is not that bad if you know how to look on the bright side with hope .
People may feel angry , depressed , or even guilty about their results .
In some cases , a carrier can suffer tension within a family because the result is also related to the others ' risk somehow .
However , I believe it is just a usual reaction to this situation .
In addition , though it can be possible , in some cases , that he or she and the family undergo specific discrimination in employment and their social life , people can face more dramatic tragedy , such as sickness or death , if they can not even overcome this harsh situation .
Life is hard , but people can not blame it on being unfair .
It is just because you do not become strong enough to overcome the hard time .
Furthermore , living with a secret is not a good sensation . Especially if the situations of other relatives become worse , you should feel guilty and depressed .
Moreover , the truth can not be hidden forever , but when it is revealed , it will be more shocking and upsetting .
As a result , it is in the interests of the carriers and their relatives : sharing the genetic test results is necessary .
Last but not least , though genetic testing is a personal matter , telling the result to your family can improve and develop the understanding of and sympathy to each other , as well as promoting awareness of the need to take care of everyone 's health .
That plays an important role in the possibility that relatives can overcome the discrimination of society and anxiety about the risks .
To put it in a nutshell , I believe that people should have the obligation to tell their relatives about the genetic test results for the good of their health .
It can be very difficult for them , but it is necessary for the carriers and their family .
In addition , emotional preparations and the ways you explain your genetic condition are also important , so that you can convey the correct information to your family and relatives , and , if necessary , guide them if he/she wish to conduct similar genetic testing .
The Impact Of Social Media
Social media has been playing a vital role in our lives today .
It is almost imposible for us to keep away from it .
I started getting into Facebook one year ago , when I just arrived in singapore .
And now I have got over 500 friends on Facebook and I bury myself with hundrends of updates every day .
We know each other 's status , changes and so on through social media .
For example , if we change our contact numbers , we do not send an SMS to each individual any more .
Instead , we post an update and tag our friends to inform them of this kind of change .
And if you are not on it , you will just get left out .
In certain aspects , social media has brought us quite a lot of convenience .
It is becoming even more convenient than talking on the phone , since it is free .
We discuss everything we like and we have more personal space . Our friends also have got more access to know what we are doing and what we like .
And also , we get the chance to talk to public people like pop stars , and know their lives better .
In China , a lot of government organizations have open blogs to communicate with people , organizations like fire stations , police stations and so on .
Social media allows them to explain to or inform people what is going on .
And actually , lots of rescuing jobs are done with the help of social media , like looking for people who get lost and so on .
With more convinient and human communcation , the relationship between government and the people gets largely improved .
What 's more , various cultures can be shown to us through social media .
We know more news and cultures through social media .
From this perspective , social media has shortened our distance .
However , we have a lower chance of , and put less importance on talking face-to-face , since social media is so convinient , advanced and interesting .
And even though we gather together , more people find themselves having fewer topics to talk about than before , and choose to dig into their social media again .
When we are far away , social media makes it as though we were infront of each other ; sometimes when we are by each other 's side , we seem to be further away .
This kind of feeling makes people 's relationships not as stable , secure or reliable than before .
Besides , there are more people showing their pictures of yummy food or their travelling experience .
To some extent , this makes our lives more luxurious and blundering .
For myself , I long to go to some places after I saw those beautiful pictures taken by my friends .
Sometimes I even can not sleep well because of excitement .
Social media makes our life happen so fast , and leaves us less time to think about our lives .
Social media is becoming more important and we need to think more to make it serve us better and better .
Interpersonal skills , like any other skills , require practise .
Besides that , these skills require time to be developed and adapted .
The birth of social media definitely has its uses ; but like all good things , it is better to use them in moderation .
Convenience and efficiency are two very important uses of social media .
While millions of users are connected at any one time , any information can be readily available for their perusal .
This improves the connectivity between the users .
For example , one is able to send notifications , and other information we used to have in hardcopy previously , over the web , and the process takes seconds .
The recipient will then receive the information almost immediately , depending on the quality of the network .
This covenience can be percieved as almost in realtime .
Next , communication is also greatly improved .
In the past , most communication was made by one of the many forms of communication , such as telegram , snail mail or poor-quality voice calls .
With the welcoming addition of applications such as Skype and Facetime , any individual can phase out most of the olden-days communication methods .
Aside from hearing voice , a webcam can also be affixed to emulate a 'real ' interaction , with expressions and gestures .
Communication would have taken a different turn without easily available social media .
However , it is good practice not to intensively use social media all the time .
Intimate interactions are greatly lacking in social media interaction , particularly the touch .
Having to meet and interact for conversations allows one to be closer to the recepient .
It involves a level of dynamic interaction which utlises the motor , thinking and verbal cortex of the mind to coordinate .
Unlike the use of social media , most of the interaction is done with thinking and typing .
As a result , one does not train the necessary skills required for proper interpersonal relations .
It is also entirely incorrect to fault social media alone for the lack of interpersonal skills .
Howard Garner studied the effect of multiple intelligences amongst people and stated that interpersonal intelligence is a form of skills on its own — some have it , some do not .
Howard Garner mentioned that the different intelligences can be charted by utilising tests , and ranked .
Fundamentally , those who scored a lower ranking for interpersonal skills are more likely to stumble when this skill is needed .
Though social media need not necessarily be bad , it must be used accordingly for work , family and friends .
The types of use must also be taken note of : informing , interacting , discussion and others .
The space of separation between the parties must also be looked at .
For people who are living very far from one another , the intensive use of social media is justified .
Those who live within the same community should at least meet up , and not use social media as the primary source of communcation with each other .
And at the same time , they will improve their interpersonal skills through the dynamic practise between individuals during presence .
The inclusion of intimate presence and relative touch may also encourage a better rapport between those interacting .
Recently , the rise of social media has helped people have more close connections with each other . It is a more convenient and cheaper to have online contact than face-to-face meetings .
In my opinion , social media websites such as Twitter and Facebook will not affect the chance for people to have face-to-face contact , and thus negatively affect interpersonal skills .
On the other hand , it may even increase the chance of having face-to-face contact between people .
Firstly , social media networks have a large user base because they help to link people from different parts of the world .
In the days without social networks , people may not have had the chance to know others from different countries or that they never met before .
The number of people that they know may only be limited to the people they meet in daily life , like classmates and work colleagues .
Therefore , social networks facilitate more and more connections between people . People now have a chance to chat with people they never knew before , and this helps to develop interpersonal skills .
Secondly , although social networks allow for people to chat online but not face-to-face , they may still decide online a time to meet others face-to-face in their daily life .
In this case , social networks help people to increase the frequency of conversations .
For example , if social networks did not exist , business people would need to meet each other face-to-face , which is time consuming . Even with business that is not so important , it still uses a lot of time on travel , which is a waste .
However , social networks help people to meet and chat much more easily ; they can even use video chat and create group chats to chat with multiple parties at the same time .
Nowadays , even some companies conduct online video interviews with job applicants , as it saves time and cost .
Social networks may also have negative impacts on some people .
The largest negative impact is that some people start to use and rely on the Internet every minute .
They spend too much time using online social networks and thus do not have time to have their daily meetings with people in real life .
It not only affects interpersonal skills but also is bad for people 's health if one spends to much time on social media .
Secondly , social networks may leak certain personal information to the public , as the cyber-environment is not perfect and not safe . People may not protect their privacy online effectively , and sometimes , some people may use others ' personal information to deceive .
In conclusion , the unsafe online environment and spending too much time on the Internet may be the negative factors of using online social networks .
they provide people with a more convenient contact environment , and increase the frequency of meeting with each other .
They also help people to develop their interpersonal skills through online chatting .
Overall , there are more benefits than drawbacks .
The wolrd is incresingly becoming flat from all kinds of social network websites such as Facebook and Twitter .
We can even know what a friend who lives thousands of miles away eats for lunch through these kinds of social media .
From some points of view , social media really have a lot of advantages by letting us communicate with friends more cheaply and more conveniently .
However , its disadvantages also can not be ignored when you cosider it as a platform to show off and a stage for cyber crime .
Social network sites provide us with many conveniences .
Without hanging out with friends or talking with friends on the phone , we can know of their latest news by scanning a webpage .
It can help us know more about each other .
It can bring people closer as well .
For example , if you find out through Facebook that one of your friend 's favourite singers is Justin Bieber , you can give him or her Justin Bieber 's new album or a concert ticket as a birthday gift .
It will be really sweet , and you two will surely become closer .
In addition , social network sites can help you keep in touch with friends living very far away .
I met some Canadian friends in Egypt .
Without Facebook , we may have lost contact .
However , thanks to Facebook , I can still keep in touch with them , and I know what they have been doing recently as we are close to each other .
The disadvantages of social network media are quite undeniable .
A study has shown that people will unconsciously hide their real thoughts when they say or post something that will be exposed to the public .
It means that one can not know another 's real thoughts or personality by reading things that he or she put on social network media .
It will make him or her quite upset when they communicate in real life .
In addition , with all those " nice " guys around on the social network websites , one may neglect people surrounding him or her , but just communicate with friends on Facebook .
It is a common scene that two people sitting next to each other seldom talk with each other , but just look at their cellphones .
This kind of behaviour is not good for people 's psychological health , according to research .
Cyber communication is quite different from face-to-face communication , and people who depend on cyber communication too much will not get used to real-life communication .
In addition , cyber relationships do not always work in real life .
With no close relationships in real life , but only close cyber friends , one is more likely to feel lonely , because the physiological need of human beings is to feel the bond with others with our five senses .
With the willingness of people to become the best among others , social network sites have now become a place to show off .
Some people will post their expensive things or the overseas places of interest they have been to on the social network , and get a feeling of satisfaction by doing so .
It is mentally unhealthy and it may trigger people , especially teenagers , to become material .
Last but not least , with all kinds of personal information on one 's social network page , it is easy for a criminal to make use of this information to commit a crime .
Above all , a social network site is a double-edged sword , and people can only take good advantage of it by avoiding the possible disadvantages of it , such as by putting less personal information on his or her Facebook page .
Modes of communication have been changing over the years , from letter writing to social networking .
This phenomenon is caused by rapidly changing technology , which has made communication faster than ever before .
Today , social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter are relatively common in contemporary society , and people can communicate with each other , online or offline , on these social networking platforms .
They can even make new friends over similar interests on these platforms , which are able to connect almost everyone in many parts of the world .
However , critics may argue that social media sites have reduced physical human interactions among people , as they prefer sitting in front of a computer to going out and meeting new friends .
This essay will discuss about both the benefits and down sides of using social media in contemporary society .
Nowadays , social media are able to disseminate information faster than any other media .
About 50 % of people learn about breaking news from social media .
This is due to people spending more time on social networking than on reading newpapers .
Furthermore , with current technology , smartphones are able to get access to social media sites that have been made easier for consumers to use .
Hence , social media has benefited the masses by equipping them with a powerful tool to disseminate information almost immediately to the people around them .
However , critics may argue that not all information or news disseminated is reliable .
There might be false information or hoaxes spreading around on social media .
For example , in 2012 , there were false rumors of fires , shootouts , and caravans of gunmen in a Mexico City suburb which had spread through Twitter and Facebook .
This had caused panic among the people , who had flooded the local police department with numerous phone calls , and this resulted in the temporary closure of schools .
The spreading of false information can be a potential psychological threat to everyone , given that social media can disseminate information at a relatively fast speed .
Nevertheless , there are cyber police who roam these social networking platforms to prevent these hoaxes spreading around .
But , there will still be unreliable sources spreading false information on social media sites , despite high security to control almost every social networking movement .
Social media are able to improve relationships and help make new friends , provided that there is mutual trust and mutual understanding between both parties involved .
Many teenagers today claim that they are able to keep in touch with their friends through social media , regardless of their location .
In the past , people used to write letters to their friends , and it would take a relatively long time to send the letter over .
Therefore , with the help of technology , people are able to catch up with each other conveniently .
Furthermore , it is easier to make new friends who have simliar interests or hobbies .
However , in order for people to maintain their relationships as well as making new friends , it requires mutual trust and understanding between both parties .
It might not be accurate to judge the other party 's feelings over social media , as one may cover up their emotions while on social media .
In addition , there are also chances for people to miscommunicate with each other , as they can not sense the tone of the other party over social media platforms .
This results in unnecessary conflicts between two parties over miscommunication .
But , if there is trust and mutual understanding on social media , it is an ideal platform for people to improve relationships and make new friends .
In conclusion , social media in contemporary society is able to help one improve relationships and make new friends , as well as disseminate information efficiently to the masses .
However , there are risks of false information and chances of miscommunication .
Nevertheless , the advantages of social media will benefit the masses if the negative aspects of it can be carefully taken care of .
All in all , social media is the product of rapid technological advancement and there are more to come in the future .
Social media sites have greatly eased long distance communication and interaction due to their accessibility and convenience .
With a globalised and interconnected world today , Twitter and Facebook are now the mainstream platforms for social interaction .
Being just a touch away from any media/electronic devices , one can easily interact and communicate with friends without much hassle .
Thus , long distance relationships and friendships can be maintained , and keeping in touch with your circle of friends has been made much easier .
With the sharing of personal photos , posting of statuses of one 's personal feelings or experiences , and the ability to reply to these posts , social media have allowed human interaction to be engaging and to expand with ease .
Introverts or those who are shy who want to communicate with their friends are now able to do so in the form of words via social media platforms .
Thus , socialisation can occur seamlessly and effectively with the utilisation of such social media platforms . Meet-ups and appointments are no longer a barrier for humans to make contact and communicate with one another , making human interaction possible at one 's own convenience .
Society will adapt to this phenomenon of physical interaction being transformed into cyber interaction .
With the frequent usage of and reliance on social media and the Internet , a society that socialises digitally will be more advanced and adapted to the highly connected world .
This will greatly help a society to progress rapidly .
One of the main concerns of using social media platforms to communicate is credibility .
The certainty of what is being shared or expressed can not be proven physically as media limits physical interaction , except when using a webcam to chat .
We can not be certain of the reliabilty or truth of some posts or information we receive through the Inetrnet .
We may in actual fact be communicating with a hoax Facebook acccount of a cyber friend that we assume to be real , but in reality it is a fake account .
Photos and information retrieved from their profile page may be fabricated to suit a certain personal agenda .
Thus , the lack of face-to-face human contact through social media restricts the actual interaction that can be stimulated through the media .
Although emoticons can be used to show certain emotions , this differs from the real authentic emotion of your friends when you observe their body language and facial expressions .
The danger of such media socialisation is the uncertainty of such communication due to a lack of physical interaction .
Furthermore , this lack of physical interaction has affected human interpersonal behaviour , since communication is made through social media instead of meet-ups .
This lowers the human ability to interact with one another , which can adversely shape one 's behaviour .
The lack of exposure to real-life interaction with humans will not create the confidence and skills needed for one to interact seamlessly and effectively with others .
Therefore , for an effective and efficient society , there is a need to have a balance of both social media interaction and face-to-face human interaction between its people .
Nowadays , people can use their phone to read news , and anyone can be the first witness of what is happening in the world .
People use Twitter to follow the artist or celebrity they love , and Facebook to see what their friends ' recent activity is .
Nevertheless , they still can use phones normally , to make calls and write messages to contacts .
Not only does the phone do these jobs for them , but so can devices like personal computers , laptops , tablets , and many other devices that are able to connect to the Internet .
It is obvious to see the Internet saves people 's time , and also connects people globally .
Several arguments have been made regarding social media actually having some inevitable disadvantages for people .
People can only use electrical devices to the Internet .
Whenever they need to use social media , they have to use a phone or some other Internet-connected device .
Generally , people need their eyes to look at the display of their phone or computer , and fingers to manipulate the corresponding device .
As a result , they will lose eye-contact wo n't be able to use their to express their feelings to people with them , which means they have lost the tools they need for face-to-face contact .
This can be easily seen in restaurants or cafes nowadays .
A family of four having dinner in a restaurant without any chatting , because they are holding and looking at their displays with one hand while the other hand is holding a fork .
A group of friends having high tea in a caf é without chatting as well , because they do not know what to talk about , so press on their screens .
Children nowadays do not know what neighbourhood games are or who is beside them ; all they know is pressing icons on the screens .
These are some concrete examples of how social media reduce face-to-face human contact .
When people get used to using socia media to contact other people , what will happen is that their interpersonal communication skills will degrade and eventually be lost .
Firstly , they will lose the courage to meet strangers , or even the courage to talk .
Also , they will not have enough experience to communicate with people in person and not be trained in conversational skills .
As a result , social media will help them do their jobs but will indirectly affect their interpersonal skills .
Social media does have some other advantages beside their general benefits to human beings .
First of all , people save money by the Internet to contact other people and read news .
A father may be able to make a call to his daughter who is in another country via social media instead of making an international call , which costs a lot to normal-income family .
He can even talk to her daughter face-to-face using video calls the Internet .
Secondly , people make friends all over the world and are easily able to update their friends with recent activity .
A guy who is going travelling for months can easily tell all of his friends about his activity .
When one of his friends who is not aware of this has failed to contact him via telephone calls , she might be able to find his whereabouts using social media .
These are the advantages that save work most of the time .
In conclusion , social media benefit people in several ways , but at the same time harm people .
People should avoid the misuse of social media and use them in the proper way .
With the aid of social media , people bond globally , information flows rapidly , and humans live happily .
All of us are living in a technological society .
Have you ever wondered why we use these tools to connect with other people ?
It started with the invention of the technology that has evolved tremendously over the past few decades .
In the past , we travelled by ship and now we can use an airplane to do so .
In the past , it took a few days to receive a message , as we needed to post our letter , but now we can use e-mail , which stands for electronic mail , to send messages to our friends . We can even use our mobile phones to send our messages .
From the example that I mentioned earlier , we can see that the distance between us and our loved ones is getting further apart .
This is because , with the ease of technology such as airplanes , some of our friends might go overseas to continue their studies . Maybe even you are away from your family , to pursue your studies or even your career .
Thus , this makes Twitter and Facebook the type of media that we need .
Nevertheless , everything in life has positive and negative effects .
This is applicable to these social media sites .
The next two paragraphs will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our society .
With the help of social media tools , we can stay in contact and keep ourselves up-to-date with our family and friends , even though we are away from them .
Social media sites such as Facebook have allowed us to share our pictures or even chat online with our parents while we are overseas .
This approaches help the parents to communicate with their children and know what kind of experiences their children have when they are overseas .
Social media are beneficial as they connect you with your loved ones , even though you are separated by distance .
It might not be possible to replace the joy that you have when you are with your family , but it could help to reduce the sadness of being away from your family .
As I mentioned in the beginning , there are also disadvantages of social media tools .
One of them is that they reduce levels of concentration , especially among the youngsters .
This is because it is one of everyone 's habits to check their Facebook page , as their friends could post something new any second .
Thus , you can see that some students browsing Facebook while attending lectures .
This means that the students are not concetrating when they are supposed to do so .
As a result , it could affect their lives and studies .
This will then lead to stress , as these students will not be able to cope with their studies , because they were distracted .
In my opinion , every individual has to take responsibility of their own life by making the right decisions .
There are advantages and disadvantages to using social media sites , however , in this case , striking a balance between social media and life is the most important thing to do .
Nowadays , the use of the social media platforms is commonplace in our lives .
In an increasingly globalised world , such platforms even enhance and complicates links between indivduals in the world .
Thanks to them , people can get to know one another online without having to travel to meet up for business purposes for companies , or for personal reasons .
However , they also bring about some social changes , whereby such virtual worlds are overtaking the real-life world , resulting in some negative impacts in individuals ' daily lives , and therefore becoming a large problem in societies as a whole .
As people spend more and more time on such social media sites , the importance of face-to-face human contact has decresed .
As people feel more confident online , where they do not have to face real life , they feel more comfortable and thus prefer communicating online .
This results in a lack of interpersonal skills in the individual , especially in young students as they always have the option to turn their back on real life and go online .
This becomes a huge problem when they have no choice but to face things in real life .
As they are so used to having an online avatar , they may lose their self-identity in real life , and may not realise how to interact with people in real life .
Another problem with social media is that the benefits from investing such enormous time and energy is not relfected in something positive to the users .
The reason why they are so addictive is that the more people get into the social media , the more they seek attention from their friends .
However , such sparks of sudden attention are extremely short-termed and disappear easily , and thus do not add any value or meaning to the user 's life .
Also , according to research , it has been proven that users feel more sad after using Facebook , and this is because users unknowingly compare their lives with other people 's lives .
But seriously , most people only post the happiest moments in their lives .
Social media definitely has some other strong benefits that make the users stay . One benefit is the links between the people .
Indeed , I myself use Facebook just because of the contact with friends that I want to keep .
However , friendship on such virtual worlds is so superficial , and not so relevant to real life .
Also , as numerous profit-driven companies realize , the high human traffic on such social media sites site is a rich environment for selling adverts .
Furthermore , this also possibly creates privacy issues as Facebook allows some other profit-driven companies to have access to information on the users .
As this happens , users are more and more prone to fraud .
Social media sites are at their peak at the moment , however I believe that when people realize that such sites are not making them better people in real life , they will not indulge in them as much as they do now .
The users , soon , will realise that they do not need such social media sites to keep in contact with the their friends because if they really need somebody they will reach their friends no matter what .
We think we are all connected through all sorts of social media , but are we really connected , or are we drifting apart ?
Social media sites like Facebook and Twitter are born with the intention of connecting people from around the world .
The idea seems great , and nowadays most people , even the older generation , will have at least one social media account , for example on Facebook .
Parents are now the " friends " of their kids , and they can " follow " their kids more closely , and in real-time .
People frequently post about their random thoughts or daily activities via Twitter and different kinds of photos on Facebook , in order to be connected with their so-called friends .
However , as we then tend to spend too much time on these sites and have significantly reduced face-to-face human contact , this eventually affects our interpersonal skills .
First and foremost , I would like to share the advantages of using such social media in my daily life .
As a student , I tend to meet lots of people from different backgrounds and in different settings .
We may meet only once , but we exchange our contact numbers as well as Facebook accounts in order to keep in touch .
Unlike just keeping contact numbers which we may not even call , social media like Facebook are a great way for friends from different fields , or even from different parts of the world , to be connected .
Within clicks , we could check on a friend 's profile and read his/her updates .
On the other hand , we could update our profile by posting on our wall , which our friends could read on their newsfeeds .
This allows friends that may not have the time to meet up to still be connected in a way .
Not only that , new friends can be easily met through such online platforms .
Hence , our social circle is , indeed , expanding .
Nonetheless , what seems to make us connected can also be the cause that makes us fall apart .
The obvious disadvantage of using social media is the reduction of time for face-to-face contact .
This subsequently leads to poor interpersonal skills , which inhibit the growth of our real social circle .
For example , we tend to send birthday wishes when Facebook promts us that " Today is someone 's birthday " .
In fact , we may have just forgotten our friend 's birthday .
We used to send greetings cards during festive seasons like Chinese New Year , and we felt so good to write one , and of course to receive one , with stamps on it .
Gone are those times , and now we do mass-sending and the receiver may feel less meaning in such online wishes .
As time passes , we may have more " friends " on the list , but the meaning of friends needs to be redefined .
In a nutshell , every sword has two edges .
The users of every social media site need to strike a balance between the real world and the virtual one .
We should maximize the benefits of such platforms but be careful of their impacts on the actual life that we have .
Ultimately , the best way to enhance interpersonal skills is still through face-to-face meetings , and social media sites are only tools to enhance it .
Nowadays , social media sites are commonly used in society .
I believe 80 percent of people play on social media sites .
These sites play the role of connecting people around the world .
They exist for the functions of connecting , sharing , interacting and advertising .
However , there are also some disadvantages that occur due to social media , which are concerning to society .
Therefore , this article is written to explain the pros and cons of using social media in our daily lives .
Firstly , with the function of social media sites to connect people , everyone is able to interact and communicate with friends and families , or even strangers , without any time or place constraints .
Through social media sites , we can chat with our friends who live in Europe and New Zealand .
There are thousands of miles between Singapore and these two places .
However , we are able to chat with our friends without travelling to the places .
It saves a lot of money and time , and strengthens our relationships , even though we live in different places around the world .
Besides that , companies can also use the convenience of social media sites , such as Facebook chat or Skype , to facilitate the meeting with the parties of a project from around the world .
Substantial costs are saved without the tiring travel from one point to another point .
With the huge amount of cost savings , this capital can be utilized in the other ways that benefit the company more , and can boost up the company 's profit .
However , there are always two sides a story .
Some scholars argue that the usage of social media reduces face-to-face contact between humans .
Since ancient times , humans have interacted with others face-to-face .
Without facial expressions , it is easier to misunderstand the intention of a speaker .
That is why facial expressions are one of the most important elements in learning to be social .
In addition , the point of view of society is that " social media sites will affect writing skills " .
Based on the statistical report , writing skills are reduced when more time is spent on social media sites .
I believe most of us have had the experience of suddenly forgetting how to write a word that we should know .
The auto-correction software is so effective when using electronic devices that we have forgotten the importance of writing .
Writing is an essential skill for people to express their own feelings and opinions .
'Privacy ' , this is a word that has become popular in these last few decades .
Humans have their own rights and privacy .
I believe that most of us agree with these terms .
However , there has been news about social media sites leaking users ' information to companies for cash reimbursement .
Everything we type on social media sites is recorded on the server and then transferred to companies for spying and advertising .
Although the Internet looks lawless and like it is your own space to speak and do anything you want , you are actually wrong .
You are not only controlled by government laws , but also spied upon by the government .
In conclusion , everything has two sides to its story .
It is our responsibility to identify the advantages and disadvantages of social media sites .
To utilize the technology well , we should make our best efforts to not only balance the pros and cons but also increase the pros and reduce the cons .
Thus , new technology will be able to bring a prosperous future for our generation and the next generation .
With the spread of advanced technology , social media sites are becoming more and more popular .
Getting connected on social media such as Facebook and Twitter has become a main trend as well as daily work nowadays .
With this situation , both advantages and disadvantages of using social media apply to our daily lives .
On one side , it is obvious that many advantages have been brought to our lives .
Social media provides people with the opportunity to get in contact with each other any time and any place .
Whether we are at home or at school , at work or on a holiday , we are able to communicate and interact with our friends .
Even when people are thousands of miles apart , social media make it possible to have interaction by writing comments .
When our phones are accidentally off , we can also use social media to get in contact with our friends .
Some people who try to talk in public can also actively take part in group chatting via social media .
Besides , we can make more friends with such interactions when our friends also bring their friends .
Therefore , the popularity of social media sites has made it more convenient for people to update friends ' statuses and make contact with friends more frequently .
On the other side , we need to think about the influences brought about by social media .
There are still many disadvantages to using social media .
Firstly , interpersonal skills may be affacted by the reduction of face-to-face human contact .
While social media bring convenience to people 's lives , people are more and more willing to use social media for chatting instead of face-to-face chatting , which has a time and place requirement .
People who are not good at public chatting may be more reluctant to talk to people , and their interpersonal skills can never be improved upon under this situation .
Secondly , people 's overuse may exacerbate social alienation , to some degree avoidably . This kind of alienation causes some social media users to suffer from over-dependence on virtual social networking .
More and more networking has been transferred to the Internet from real life .
This is a potential danger for teenagers , who are growing and undergoing social changes , to get hurt .
Thirdly , a lot of updating of luxury living standards as well as other show-off situations may make people 's daily lives seem more and more grandoise , which is not an accurate social growth trend .
Lastly , it is easy for people to waste a lot of time using social media .
Again , there is a trend for them to suffer from social media use , and their study and work may be greatly influenced .
Since we can see both advantages and disadvantages of using social media , and we can not deny the huge benefits that have been brought to us , this main trend of using social media may still last for a long time .
Therefore , every time we use social media , we should take both sides into consideration and try to avoid being affected by the disadvantages .
Only by absorbing the essence and discarding the dregs can we make better use of social media .
In this sophisticated era , experts keep producing inventions that are meant to make life easier .
Geographical and transportation limitations are not a problem anymore because communication and information technologies are enhanced continuously .
The telephone may have been perceived as the biggest innovation ever created the first time Graham Bell introduced it .
However , since the Internet became popular , telephones have started to give way to social media sites .
Many advantages are given to the users .
Let us take examples from Facebook and Twitter , two of the most famous social media sites .
Through Facebook , peope are able to maintain relationships with their old acquaintances .
This benefit can not be obtained through telephones or mail because people 's numbers and addresses may change from time to time , while on Facebook people can keep in contact with old friends just by using their name and photo , for example , as an identifier .
Facebook is like a combination of messaging and chatting services , personal profiles , media sharing , and other entertainment add-ons ( e.g .
social games ) which allow users to communicate with remote people , and also to update and express themselves at the same time .
Twitter , which has a more simplified function compared to Facebook , gives more benefit if used as an information sharing medium .
Twitter only allows users to post updates that are limited to short sentences , in order to spread the word fast .
For Facebook , a comprehensive way of sharing is offered since multiple photos and videos can be uploaded , and long notes can be published . Even documents and data can be shared through Facebook nowadays .
These advantages also come in handy as most of these social media sites are accessible through mobile applications on our smartphones .
Despite the luxury that is offered by social media , there are also harmful side effects , which people may not realize before joining .
Research shows that the frequency of face-to-face meetings among people that are addicted to social media sites has been decreasing .
As a consequence , it affects their interpersonal skills .
People can think while typing and prepare what they want to say , but in face-to-face communication , every word that comes out of your mouth and may be not well arranged is the picture of your personality .
This skill requires practise , and can not be done completely through social media .
There is a situation where a family is having a dinner together in a restaurant but everybody is busy with their own gadget , posting pictures on Facebook , updating statuses on Twitter , or even chatting with friends .
These social media serve the purpose of joining people in spite of their geographical boundaries , but it should n't mean that the surrounding people are neglected as a result .
This is related to the interpersonal skills that were mentioned before , which may be decreasing qualitatively if we are used to facing gadgets , not facing human beings .
Another disadvantage that affects other people is that by only showing selected parts of our lives , we build a " false image " for the public .
We tend to only share our happy moments on social media .
Because of this , other people start to think that our lives are full of happiness with no problems at all .
Other people are then influenced by us and tend to do the same .
As a result , people think of themselves as lowly and this may lead to depression and mental disorder .
It also reduces our sympathy .
This is a serious social problem and affects a lot of people .
As explained above , modern and sophisticated technology does n't always give only advantages .
There are a lot of disadvantages that people may not realize .
It is up to people 's discretion and comprehension to decide which side they want to take .
So , we should never forget to think about and calculate the benefit and loss of every decision that we make .
Nowadays , the advancement of technology greatly improves the lives of many people .
In most countries , there has been an emergence of social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter .
Many people think that social media sites have benefits for communication between people , while some others argue that there are several negative impacts for the society .
One of the advantages that are carried by those social media sites is that they can connect us more closely than before .
In past decades , when the social media sites were not fully developed , people connected with others who lived far away by using a phone , or even writing a letter .
However , calling a person by phone and writing a person a letter require some cost , and sending a letter to a person who lives far away , especially in villages , takes much time .
The appearance of social media sites caused these problems to be solved .
People connecting through social media sites can spend no money on the communication . Also , it takes only one or a few seconds for the message to reach its recipient .
Therefore , the advantages of social media sites are that they save money and time , and also provide convenience for many people .
Moreover , this also provides an alternative way for people to contact a person whom they have not seen for a very long time , such as their friends in primary school and secondary school .
As we graduate from a school , we probably lose contact with some of our friends .
Some of them may change their phone numbers and addresses , and we will be unable to contact them by phone or a letter .
If phone and letter are the only ways to contact them , we would probably not be able to find them .
Facebook and Twitter can serve as alternative routes to making connections between us and our old friends .
Hence , the social media sites serve as a platform for the connection .
Everything that comes with benefits also has disadvantages .
Therefore , social media sites also have some negative impacts on people and society .
The advancement of these social media sites makes people so reliant on them that some prefer using these sites to contact each other to talking to each other face-to-face .
Many people argue that this is the most serious problem brought about by social media sites .
The usage of social media sites indirectly causes a reduction in face-to-face human communication in real life , which will in turn cause a loss of interpersonal skills for many people .
As we all know , interpersonal skills are essential for us to communicate with each other and to present our views and ideas .
The loss of interpersonal skills results in the inability for people to present their ideas well .
As a result , they will gradually decrease in their ability to compete with each other in society .
In conclusion , social media sites cause both positive and negative consequences for people and society .
As a part of this modern society , we should learn to distinguish between the good and bad impacts brought about by the advancement of technology , and also to avoid the cons and maximize the benefits of those sites .
With the advancement of technology in recent years , the need to keep in touch with people and the latest news has become a tremendous demand .
Some of the famous examples would be on social media sites like Twitter and Facebook .
With an increasing userbase of more than a billion users from all over the world , social media sites have demonstrated clearly their success in playing an important part of our life .
However , there are arguments that social media life brings with it a reduction in face-to-face human contact , which in turn affects interpersonal skills .
Let 's examine the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily lives and in society .
First and foremost , all social media sites are free .
All users needs are an internet connection and an email account , so everyone can get a Facebook or Twitter ID to start their journey in social media life .
Secondly , it helps people to keep in-touch with one another .
Finding old friends through Facebook , for example , is easier than asking around in real life .
Social media helps to lessen the hassle of geographical distance and brings people closer .
Thirdly , social media sites keep us up-to-date on the latest news and updates from almost everywhere in the world , all with a click on the refresh button .
Last but not least , social media sites also link people together through allowing us to create our own groups , pages or sites to share our hobbies , interests and studies in particular subjects .
Hence , it is undeniable that these sites play an important role in our global inter-connected world .
However , social media sites also have a second side , of negative impact on humanity .
It is undeniable that it becomes more addicting when we spend more time being busy socialising and interacting virtually .
We spend a majority of our time on sites like Facebook and Twitter , and it affects our daily work productivity and performance .
In the corporate world , employers often block social media networks to prevent employees from spending their office time on personal leisure , rather than concentrating on their work .
Using text-messaging language as an informal way of communicating on social media networks also has a bad impact on us in the long term .
The more time we spend on these sites , the less time we spend on face-to-face interaction with one another .
Hence it lessens valuable interaction between humans and the time we spend away from the computer screen or mobile phone .
In addition , there are also some false reports and fake IDs appearing on social media sites , for example that sites people use fake IDs to insult or harass someone , like the case of Heather Chua which occurred recently on Facebook .
These malicious comments often go viral and it creates a strong negative effect on the real user in real life , which might lead to an unwillingness by the victim to interact with others in real life .
In conclusion , everything has its positive and negative effects , and it depends on how we exploit it .
With current technology booming , it is agreeable that people become more technology-savvy and that they want to spend more time interacting with each other through social media sites . However , it does not mean that we should neglect face-to-face human interaction , as it plays an even more important role in our lives .
As more and more social websites , such as Twitter , Facebook and Weibo , have become ubiquitous , seamless and imperative in our lives , people have been worrying about the young generation having problems with face-to-face communication skills .
However , I believe that the benefits brought about by these online chat rooms tremendously outweigh their repercussions .
Social media enables us to explore the world far , far away without paying for expensive airplane tickets and sparing a one-week holiday .
The convenience is beyond description .
With a small smartphone or a computer at school , at work or at home , we can easily make friends worldwide with a 'click ' , and get to know about their lives through having conversations with them , reading their blogs , photos and statuses .
Compared to face-to-face interaction , online conversation is easier for strangers to open their mouths to each other .
Since some of the information has already been revealed on the home page , it is also easier to find some common topics to talk about .
Moreover , people usually like to boldly share their real feelings online , with their masks in reality being taken off .
This has been indicated in a report done by Boston University in 2012 : 80 % of information posted online is true , while a person may lie 3 out of 10 times in real life .
This shows that a Facebook friend may know more about you than your close friend who does not have a Facebook account .
That is because we are acting who we are in reality , while we have no reason to do so in the online virtual world .
Although sometimes the genuine sharing of information may be inappropriate or even harmful , such as prevalent use of vulgarity and harsh-intentioned comments , we can minimize those repercussions through strict regulations of content online .
Another advantage of social media is in aiding the spread of democracy .
People around the world can easily share their thoughts about their governments .
That eliminates the disadvantage of incomplete information for some remote rural regions , where people are less aware of what is actually happening around them .
One of the examples is the 2012 riots that happened in Egypt and Zambia .
The idea of searching for democracy was passed from the Egyptians to people in Zambia quickly through the use of social media .
However , as the government controls most of the media .
These social media may be tools of their campaign , manipulating the thoughts of the public .
For example , in the 2012 general election in Singapore , Dr Tan Chee Keong made use of Facebook to spread his campaign videos to the public .
Though because of this , social media is still a much fairer and more transparent online platform for the public to share ideas than other traditional media .
Intensive use of social media does reduce the time people spend on face-to-face communication .
It is commonly seen in a food court or restaurant that a group of people sitting together around a table will each have a cell phone in their hands .
They are too busy with their way-too-many virtual friends that some of them neglect the feelings of their real-life friends .

What we can do is to educate the public about the importance of the friends by their side , and teach them to manage their time well .
In conclusion , the use of social media has more advantages than disadvantages to our daily lifes .
What we can do is to cautiously manage our time spent online and manage our words used online .
With the regulation of government and relevant authorities , the virtual world would be a better world .
Social media sites ' role in connecting people around the world is undeniable .
Thanks to those social media , the communication among people all over the world is possible and can be done with ease .
Apart from the ease of communication despite the distance , many other advantages such as knowledge sharing and trades exist in social media as well .
Nevertheless , with those advantages , some disadvantages may appear , such as : reduction in face-to-face human contact , which affects interpersonal skills ; privacy issues ; and some types of fraud that can be done through social media .
Twitter , Facebook and Skype are some social media sites that enable us to keep in touch with our friends or family who are in other cities or countries .
Through those sites , we are able to talk to them , to know what their activities are and who their friends are , etc. From the surface , there is no doubt that these sites help us to have a better relationship with our relatives , despite the distance .
The sharing of information can be done faster through social media as well , which is why nowadays many news publishers have their own social media accounts . For example , Channel News Asia has a Twitter account and updates its followers with headline news .
That shows how news and information can be shared easily through social media .
Furthermore , since many teenagers and young adults are fans of social media , this information can reach them easily without them needing to watch or listen to news reports .
Due to the popularity of social media , many people are starting to do their business via these sites .
More and more advertisements can be found on Facebook , whether it is our friends who are selling their products or professional brands selling their products online . We can buy and contact the sellers through those sites , which can be considered as an advantage for us , the buyers .
However , is it the same when we keep in touch with someone virtually as when we meet them personally ?
I do think there is a difference in it , and I believe many of us will agree .
When we write or communicate virtually , we can hide our true feelings . Many do not become themselves since they do not want the other party to judge them .
Other than that , sometimes the message of one party can not be delivered properly to the other one since the communication is done through written language , and thus the 'tone ' of the message sent and the message received may be different .
Many people are very brave in telling people about their opinions online , but in real life some of them can be very shy and not outspoken at all .
This will lead to bad interpersonal skills , as well as a problem of trust .
Nowadays we can not really trust new people whom we know from social media , since we will never know whether they are even 'real' .
Some people fake their identities on social media sites so that they can know more people , or even to cheat others .
In addition , privacy issues have become more popular nowadays , since some people do not realize that they may actually be sharing some information that they are not willing to share in the first place .
Therefore , while social media sites undoubtedly have benefits in our lives , we should consider their drawbacks and thus use them wisely so that we can gain more of their benefits and have them disadvantage us in the smallest way possible .
It is a common scene that almost everyone on public transport is watching their or wearing a pair of earphones in this modern society today .
Not one but many developed and developing countries have the same scene .
Some say that it is a necessary step for human evolution .
Social media sites like Twitter and Facebook are popular among people , because they connect them to others , even those in different countries .
They also bring many negative effects , such as loss of face-to-face communication skills , which are important in their work place .
This essay will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily lives .
One of the significant advantages of using a popular social media site is that people can reach other easily , even without contact for a long time .
In this fast-paced and competitive world , people may not be able to keep in touch with others .
With the help of social media sites , people are able to upload their new discoveries and funny situations to them , and they can be updated about new information from their friends .
Personally I am studying overseas ; busy study life keeps me away from contact with my old friends .
Using a common social media site , my friends help me know what their statuses are nowadays .
And I am able to easily find a common topic when I contact them .
In Singapore , many Malaysians cross the sea to work here .
Many of them are busy in work and separated from their children .
One of the managers in my work place has the same situation .
After my manager taught her mother how to use Facebook , she was able to upload video clips of her grandchild .
Now my manager does not miss the moments of her daughter 's growth .
Social media sites are also a very useful tool for people looking to start a new friendship or relationship .
People with the same preferences can get connected or closer .
It is easier for people to approach the other after knowing this information .
Students can exchange their experiences of study even if they are in different countries .
People are able to share their culture or pretty photos online , so that others can share the joy with them .
Thus , I believe that social media sites are one useful tool to help people know each other better .
However , a social media site is a double-edged sword ; it also brings some negative effects to our daily lives .
One disadvantage that concerns many people is that people lose interest in face-to-face communication .
Many people like to use language to present themselves , and lose confidence when they talk to each other .
Although not everyone is good at having public relationships , even without the existence of social media sites , we can not deny that it does affect some people in their interpersonal sklils ability .
In conclusion , a shadow always exists when there is light .
We should take the advantages of the creatures we create , and try to avoid the negative effects .
Social media sites are supposed be a very useful and convenient tool to use and bring people closer in this globalised world .
The use of social media has greatly influenced our ways of communicating with one another .
Online friends become real life friends and real life friends communicate with one another online .
Social media has changed our ways of exchanging information and interpersonal relationships profoundly .
There are advantages and disadvantages to this change .
Social media has reshaped the way of communication .
In real life , we communicate with one another as equal participants .
We share ideas and stories , and forge friendships based on mutual respect .
However , communication on social media is largely based on " broadcasting and viewing " .
When we use Facebook to post pictures and statuses ,
we are actively " presenting " fa ç ades of our lives in front of others .
We tend to post the pictures with our best appearance , and post statuses that are funny .
We broadcast these fa ç ades of us to others .
The images we choose to present are tentatively considered .
The audience is not some specific person , but everyone we might know , or even the entire world .
There is an element on social networks of seeking out attention rather than expressing one 's true opinion .
On the other hand , the viewers are not listeners .
They are just scrolling down through pages and pages of pictures and statuses , and see one of them which they might think is funny .
It is not the broadcasters themselves they care about , but the content .
This type of communication does not help in forging interpersonal relationships .
In real life , establishing friendship requires the all-rounded understanding of one another and the caring for one another .
The latter requires face-to-face interaction , when we can show our emotions to the other .
One can not truly understand a person by only stalking his/her Facebook page , where he/she carefully chooses what to present .
One can not truly show their emotions to another by texting some = ) signs .
The " broadcasting and viewing " model is not good for forging relationships .
However , it is good for sharing information .
On social media , everyone is a broadcaster and a viewer .
With my social network account , I seldom read newspapers or go to news websites anymore because I can easily read them from the statuses of my friends .
If I am interested in politics , I can just follow some political newspapers or public figures .
I get news of sales , clothes and cosmetics from my friends .
If some of my friends have a horrible taste in clothes and he/she posts them often , I can simply block him/her .
Information gets circulated .
The most popular information gets circulated the most , so I can seldom miss it .
Social networks play a role in providing , and also filtering , information .
This saves a lot of time for me in reading newspapers and watching TV .
Personally , I feel more at ease on social media .
From the above two points of view I think social media could forge more interest-based friendships .
With the help of social media , I become real-life friends with those from online forums whom I share the same interest with .
I also discovered some of my friends ' interests , which I found were in common with mine , so that now talking to one another is much more about life , study , friends , etc .
Our communication does not focus on how we feel , or what we say to each other , but whatever is interesting , or the content .
In this case , interpersonal skills are not as important because our goal is not to impress somebody , but to get the information that we are both interested in .
In conclusion , I think social media has reshaped interpersonal relationships from a more human-based friendship that requires sharing and caring between friends , to a more information-based friendship that requires a mutual interest .
There are advantages and disadvantages , however , whether it is good or bad we are still not sure of .
It is just different .
Advantages and disadvantages of using social media in daily life
People who live in the modern world really can not live without social media sites like Twitter and Facebook .
Almost all students and young adults possess a Facebook or Twitter account .
It is true that social media makes people able to connect one another more conveniently .
However , it seems that , especially for some , sharing some parts of one 's life , such as videos and photos , on social media sites has become really necessary .
An extremely interesting and ironic phenomenon was discovered : a group of friends met and sat around one table , but none of them was really chatting with another .
Instead , all of them were more interested in posting pictures of this " cheerful " meeting on their social media sites .
Therefore , there is a need to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of social media .
Social media enable people from different parts of the world to communicate with one another .
In the past , people used to write letters and send postcards to keep in touch with those living far away .
It could take a few days or weeks for them to receive the messages .
Nowadays , what people need to do is just type in front of the computer in their own rooms .
And people on the other side will only need a second to receive the message .
Distance and time are no longer the problems , which is convenient , especially when instant chat is needed .
However , when people become more and more addicted to this convenience , and fail to communicate with people who are close to them , their face-to-face interpersonal skills are lost .
Social media provide people a way of talking and chatting that can never be considered as a way of communication .
When one chats on those media sites , there is no eye contact , no emotion delivery , and even the expressions are typed in by using some combination of punctuation .
For more convenience , sentences are shortened to simply three or four words , such as lol ( which means laughing intensively ) and " asap " ( which means as soon as possible ) .
People indeed go to great lengths to make their words as short as they can .
On the other hand , once they are communicating with people in their face , expressing themselves appropriately becomes a really big problem .
Social media also provide people huge branches of information about people and things that interest them .
For example , on Twitter , it is exciting to follow people that you adore , like famous movie and TV series stars , business men and entrepreneurs .
It makes people feel extremely close to their idols ' lives and works .
Updated news that people care about can be easily obtained when you refresh your social media sites on your smartphones and laptops , almost at any time .
However , after one has registered for those social media sites that are not reliable , all the information you have filled in could be a weapon against you in the future .
Furthermore , not everyone on social media sites is honest .
The profile picture may not be the person whom that user says he or she really is .
The reason might just be that he or she just wants to " decorate " his or her face .
But there is a possibility that the person on the other side is deceiving you in order to obtain your information , and use it against you .
No pledge of authenticity shared on social media sites ensures people 's information and privacy .
To sum up , social media have advantages and disadvantages in people 's daily lives .
They shorten the distance between people from all over the world and make instant communication possible .
And it has become more convenient to obtain and update information by using social media .
On the other hand , social media make people lose their ability to communicate effectively in their real lives , and make people risk exposing their privacy to those whose identity can not be verified on social media sites .
How do social media help change our lives ?
With the development of technology , social media has had a more and more significant role in the world .
Everyone in the world can not stop using it every day to express their feelings or ideas , and a lot of other stuff that helps their friends know their lives better .
However , social media also raise concerns about whether they bring us benefits or human disasters .
Although they help to connect us with our friends wherever we are , they at the same time reduce the chance for us to talk to our friends face-to-face , which may affect our interpersonal skills .
Thus , whether there are more advantages or disadvantages becomes a tough question for every human being .
Many people say they will support social media since they really help them to have a closer view of how their friends are doing in other parts of the world .
This is especially true for people who are overseas .
To them , social media are the only resource they can use to know everything that is happening in their home country , and the only way they can show their lives to their lovers , as well .
What is more , these days social media play an important role in spreading information .
Nowadays , people can just easily put their renting information on their Facebook account and wait for a response from others who are from different parts of the world , which brings us a huge amount of convenience .
This is quite significant , especially for young teenagers , since they would rather go to these sites to see news to find out what has happened in the world , than read the newspaper every day .
However , there are also a great number of people who are against this technology .
They worry a lot about bad effects on teenagers who are still developing .
They point out that actually social media reduce the chance for us to talk to people around us , face-to-face .
The more we care about Facebook , , the less time we will have to spend with our friends .
Nowadays , it is quite common to see at some party people who would rather look at their phones and read all the posts on Facebook if they feel bored , than socialise .
It makes people worry , since if all the teenagers continue using social media frequently , they will decrease their ability to talk to people .
They will feel it becomes difficult for them to find any topics to communicate about with other people .
Personally , I strongly agree that social media bring more disadvantages than advantages .
Although it is really useful when we need to use them to let other people know we really live a good life , it wastes us a lot of the time as well .
Think of it another way , if we put the time we spent on wandering about those sites into something productive , we may already have finished a book or done other more meaningful things .
We should keep in mind that there are still other ways for us to contact our family or friends .
Everything is bad if we do n't know how to use it wisely , no matter whether it is really good or not .
As a result , it is important for people to know that we need to be cautious about the time we spend on these social media .
As stated above , I strongly believe that if we can use social media wisely , rather than abusing it , we will all live better lives .
The advantage and disadvantage of social media
Nowadays , as technology is becoming increasingly advanced , more and more social media sites are showing up in our daily lives .
You can see people using Facebook and Twitter on their smartphones or iPads on buses or on trains .
Some may say that the appearance of these modern media will reduce the chance of people to communicating face-to-face .
This essay will illustrate the pros and cons of using social media in modern society .
First of all , social media can make it more convenient for people to make friends and contact each other .
Years ago , when these modern products were not popular , the ways for people to communicate or contact people far away were restricted to making phone calls , sending emails or writing letters .
Some of those methods take a long time , and some are not efficient enough for people to get a response .
However , social media solve these problems well .
People can contact their friends on the Internet and get a reply very quickly .
The communication is also not limited to words .
People can express themselves through pictures or emoticons .
People can also get to know their friends ' states and moods by looking at their posts online .
Moreover , people can be aware of what is going on in social situations , by seeing comments online and sharing their opinions on these websites .
These social media make people 's lives much more colorful and provide a lot of fun .
However , social media may do some harm to people 's lives .
It makes people spend more time on chatting on the Internet rather than communicating face-to-face , such that interpersonal skills are badly affected .
Some people spend a lot of time on them and forget their real lives .
Actually , I have seen some people who are very funny and interesting when I chat with them online .
However , they behave quite boringly when I talk to them in real life .
Teenagers develop their interpersonal skills and social skills while they grow up .
If they spend too much time on these social media , it may cause some problems with their mental development .
They may feel uncomfortable when they communicate with people face-to-face .
Some may share less and less time with their families and not know how to express themselves .
Moreover , some immoral content on websites will affect teenagers and confuse them .
Some may even do something wrong .
In conclusion , the appearance of social media sites is a double-edged sword .
They can make our lives simpler .
People can promote their friendships and relationships through these social media .
However , they can also make people forget to communicate with their families and friends in real life and affect their interpersonal skills negatively .
But overall , the advantages far outweigh the disadvantages .
So we need to make the best use of these social media and make them a fun way to add some excitement when life is boring .
And we should try to bypass the shortcomings .
Remember to send greetings to our friends and family frequently .
Nowadays , with the advancement of technology , it is easy to communicate wherever you are .
The appearance of social media sites truly connects people closely .
People can see their friends ' recent looks , and interesting things going on with people , just by checking their Facebook or other social media site .
We can not deny that social media sites truly make that old friends do not lose each other 's information , and improve the chances of communicating , even from a different country .
However , social media sites truly reduce face-to-face communication , which truly affects interpersonal skills .
There are two advantages and two disadvantages of using social media in people 's daily lives .
Firstly , social media sites can closely connect people with their friends and parents .
By typing words and sharing pictures , people can express the emotions that they are otherwise too shy to express .
For example , on Mother 's Day , people are too shy to say " I love you " to their mothers so they type it on his or her mother 's Facebook page .
Then his or her mother will know their emotions and feel warm .
On the other hand , when a teenager is studying in a foreign country , the Internet is the only way that they can communicate with their parents and friends .
Therefore , social media is truly good for people .
Secondly , social media sites can not only connect people with their close friends .
People can also find out much information about celebrities on Twitter and Facebook , such as Obama or Bill Gates , and get first-hand study materials on them .
They can learn how these people succeed and they also have the chance to talk with them and know these famous people 's thoughts by using the social media .
On the other hand , with the help of social media , some homeless people or people who need money to cure a disease can get the help from the world quickly , because once one person knows the information , he or she will share it with their " circle of friends " , then many people will know it and spread the information to people who can give help .
On the other hand , there are also problems with the popularity of social media .
Firstly , when people rely on social media to communicate with their friends and parents , they will become accustomed to communicating by typing and not talking .
People even prefer talking to their friends and meet their friends online , and gradually reject face-to-face communication .
Therefore , social media truly limit interpersonal skills , such that people lose the chance and the ability to practise talking and maintain the relationship between them and their friends .
Secondly , without true communication in real life , people lose the ability to differentiate between truth and lies .
There are many people on social media with beautiful images and good content on their pages , however in real life he or she may not have jobs or may live poorly .
Teenagers may believe these people and easily be cheated , and lose money or even their safety .
Therefore , social media are not safe , which is bad to teenagers ' future development .
All in all , the appearance of social media truly helps people a lot in many areas .
However , there exist some disadvantages that will affect people to some degree .
Advantages and Disadvantages of Using Social Media in Our Daily life and Society .
Nowadays , with the development of technology and society , social media have become more popular and even more important in our daily lives .
We communicate with others using social media , such as Twitter , Facebook and microblogs , more and more frequently .
There is no need for people to go out of their home to interact with others ; they chat online , share pictures , tell others what they have done , or tell funny stories .
It seems that people build good relationships with others on social media , but problems come out .
Pepope do not know how to talk with others face-to-face , especially strangers .
Therefore , we need to talk about the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in daily life and in society .
As for the advantages , there are two aspects : social media are more convenient to contact others , and easier to know about others .
One advantage is that it is more convenient to contact others by social media .
In the olden days , if one wanted to tell some important news to another person who lived far away , they would have needed to write letters , which wastes time .
The long distance and time-consuming method made spreading messages very difficult at the time .
Therefore , people may have chosen not to contact faraway friends and relatives unless there was something important to say .
However , people now can contact anyone in the world who can use computer , at any time , and there is no time delay between sending and receiving messages .
The other advantage is that it is easier to find out about others by social media .
If there were no social media , it would be difficult for people to find out about strangers .
They may collect information about that person by asking friends , colleagues or family members .
And the information collected may not be intact and true .
But today , with the help of social media , people can easily get the information they want just by searching online , and find out about what that person did every day , and at what time .
As for the disadvantages of social media in our daily lives , there are many : wasting time , causing illnesses related to sitting for a long time in front of the computer , the quick spread of rumors and fake news , and most importantly , making people lose the ability to confidently talk to others face-to-face .
It is weird that people sit around the table but all face their phones and do not talk to each other .
If there is a joke on their Facebook page , they may talk to others in this way : " Hi , look , how ridiculous this is " , and then they laugh together .
No matter whether it is a party , a dinner or just simply a get-together , there are always some people bowing their heads and playing their phones , even though their family and friends are in front of them .
In conclusion , there are both advantages and disadvantages to using social media in daily life .
People should enjoy the advantages of social media while being aware of the disadvantages , and try their best to avoid the disadvantages from happening to them , their friends and their family .
Today 's world is considered to be the era of social media sites like Facebook and Twitter . These sites are connecting people around the world .
However , some people worry that social networks can affect interpersonal skills , as they reduce face-to-face human contact .
The advantages and disadvantages of using such social media in society are elaborated on as follows .
Nobody can deny social media 's advantage of connecting people , regardless of nationality , race , culture or language .
Social media are a trending technology and a suitable means of communications .
Firstly , social media bring convenience to the world .
They have erased the boundaries of distance and time .
No more worries about the time it takes to deliver letters and packages .
Nowadays , thanks to the help of social media , with just one click , you can contact your family and friends whenever you want .
You can share photos , videos and every meaningful experience of your life .
More importantly , it is cheap and easy to use social media .
Secondly , social media networks open the door to opportunities for people , due to their great benefit of connecting people .
A lot of recent graduates can find jobs thanks to Facebook and Twitter .
Young people can widen their relationships , meet new friends and learn wonderful things in many parts of the world .
In business , social media are a good tool to develop and advertise products and services .
On the other hand , social media also have disadvantages that have created worries in society recently , and made them a controversial phenomenon .
More and more young people tend to live in the social media world most of their time and reduce face-to-face human contact , which can affect interpersonal skills and relationships in their social lives .
First and foremost , we should realize that the social media world is not trustworthy or real .
Everyone can easily make up the personality and characteristics they want .
They can become anyone .
Though social media do help create relationships , relationships and friendships are only firm and real if people have gone through experiences together and had communication in face-to-face interaction .
There is a story of a girl who lived in the social media world every night for eight years .
In chat rooms , she created close relationships with eight people .
She talked with them every night , trusted them and shared her life with them .
Then , eventually , she discovered that the eight people became one , as a man was using eight different identities to chat with her all the time .
Furthermore , the convenience of social media is also their weakness .
A lot of people use their true information on social media sites , which can lead to crime and deception .
People can use the information to deceive family , friends and banks to do bad things such as blackmail , ATM theft and so on .
Last but not least , social media do affect human interpersonal skills when people increase the time spent on social sites and reject chances to expose themselves to social daily life activities , as well as interacting with people .
Recent research has shown that the more time people spend on social media sites , the less ambitious they become .
As a result , if the situation keeps going on in this unexpected trend , it will cause a bad effect on the young generation .
To put it in a nutshell , everything has its own pros and cons .
So do social media networks .
It is not only convenient and beneficial in connecting people and developing business , but it also can damage people 's relationships and interpersonal skills .
Social media are only beneficial as long as we know how to use them in a correct and suitable way , with the combination of both social media sites and daily life interaction , to develop people 's potential to the fullest .
