Keeping the Secret of Genetic Testing
What is genetic risk ?
Genetic risk refers to your chance of inheriting a disorder or disease .
People get certain diseases because of genetic changes .
How much a genetic change tells us about your chance of developing a disorder is not always clear .
If your genetic results indicate that you have gene changes associated with an increased risk of heart disease , it does not mean that you definitely will develop heart disease .
The opposite is also true .
If your genetic results show that you do not have changes associated with an increased risk of heart disease , it is still possible that you will develop heart disease .
However for some rare diseases , people who have certain gene changes are guaranteed to develop the disease .
If we are diagonosed with a certain genetic disease , are we supposed to disclose this result to our relatives ?
My answer is no .
On one hand , we do not want the test to have potentially dangerous and frightening effects on our families ' later lives .
When people around us know that we have a certain disease , their attitudes will be easily changed , whether by caring for us too much or keeping away from us .
Yet neither are what we want since most of us just want to live as normal people .
Surrounded by such concerns , it is very likely that we will be distracted by worrying about these problems .
It is a concern that will be with us our whole life , because we will never know when the ''potential bomb' ' will explode .
On the other hand , if there are ways that can help us to control or cure the disease , we can go through the process with the support of the whole family .
For example , if exercising is helps prevent the potential disease , we can always look for more chances for the family to exercise .
And should keep track of all the members ' health conditions .
At the same time , we are prepared to know when other members get this disease .
Here I want to share Forest 's view on this issue .
Although some people feel that an individual who is found to carry a dominant gene for Huntington 's disease has an ethical obligation to disclose that fact to his or her siblings , there is currently no legal requirement to do so .
In fact , requiring someone to communicate his or her own genetic risk to family members who are therefore also at risk is considered by many to be ethically dubious .

Nothing is absolutely right or wrong .
If a certain disease 's genetic test is very accurate , the disease is unavoidable , it is necessary to get treatment and it is known by others , it is correct to disclose the result .
Above all , life is more important than secrets .
Genetic risk does carry consequences and should not be taken lightly within the family circle .
Afterall , what affects one family may or may not affect another although the families have a common genetic make up shared by either of the parents .
In cases where an individual has gotten to know of a genetic disorder , disclosing it or not to his or her relative is solely a matter of preference for the individual 's moral system .
The issue of right to know or not to know is highly debatable , because although there is a genetic risk , one can not be entirely sure because the genetic information could possibly come from the families of either parents - his maternal and paternal uncles , aunts or cousins .
This also means that as soon as a person is made aware of his or her genetic profile , he or she concurently has some knowledge about others ' .
This knowledge may be relevant to them , and vice versa .
An example that may serve as an illustration is breast cancer .
It is hereditary .
Should someone who suffers from this disease keep it a secret from their relatives ?
In retrospect , it is also one 's duty to ensure that one undergoes periodic healthchecks of their own .
Sometimes some aspects of family structure and cultural beliefs can influence the pattern of communication .
Depending from whom the genetic risk was discovered , the son or daughter for example , the parents would decide who gets told and who takes precedence in being 'allowed ' to tell .
For example , within a family , regardless of who had first received the genetic information , the parents were seen as having the primary responsibility to pass on the information to any offspring .
In addition , a woman testing positive for BRCA1 would be expected to allow her brother or sister to disclose such information to a niece or nephew rather than do it herself , although this may be further complicated by an individual 's response to risk information as they may not want to know .
Hence , there were also tensions if participants felt that they could neither pass on information to relatives who needed to know ( such as nieces and nephews ) nor persuade those with authority ( the parents ) to do so .
The notion of authority also extended 'vertically' .
For example , a grandmother may have more authority to pass on information than an aunt , even when she is not at risk herself while the aunt is .
From a practitioner 's perspective , these findings are important because if lay constructs of the family and kinship are social contstructs the they may not be in line with geneticists ' views of family relationships , or about which blood ( or non-blood ) relatives should be informed and by whom . this is also likely to be dependent on the cultural and ethnic context .
Ultimately , one must bring attention to who may benefit from such information and assisting those at risk to make considered decisions about disclosure .
Whose duty it is to inform at-risk relatives or not greatly depends on personal morals and the nature of direct the risk to them .
People with a close blood relationship generally carry some similar genes .
Therefore , if one of the family members or close relatives is found to carry genetic risk , it is better for the patient to tell his/her close relatives about the risk so that his/her family members are able to perform some daily exercises to prevent the potential disease or they may go to hospital and check for the corresponding .
In my opinion , although the announcement of carrying a genetic risk involves the issue of individual privacy , the carrier should be obligated to tell his or her relatives in order for them to prevent the potential disease .
I agree with this statement strongly .
First to focus on the negative side of the of genetic risk .
Large numbers of patients with the genetic risk would want to keep it secret as the genetic risk may indicate their high chance of carrying a certain disease .
for young unmarried people , if he/she is known to have some genetic risk , there will be a chance that his/her child would carry the same disease .
Therefore , to keep the information a secret from his/her future spouse would help the relationship .
Secondly , announcing the potential risk would cause the family member to be scared of this particular issue . although this may not be that serious , people would still fear that they may develop a potential disease in the future and thus go to hospital to have additional checks or take more medicine in order to prevent the disease , which would create unnecessary costs for the family .
Furthermore , the announcement of genetic risk would affect the relationships between relatives as sometimes others may not want to stay too close to the carrier in order to reduce their chances of getting the potential disease .
On the other hand , if the genetic risk is kept secret , although it may benefit the carrier to a certain extent and help to maintain privacy , it has a much larger negative impact on the family members and relatives .
First , in the case of marriage , people should be honest and tell his/her spouse that they may carry a certain genetic risk that may affect their offspring .
It is better to let the other party know before rather than after the baby is born and a certain type of genetic disease is found .
It is better for both parties to be honest .

For example , if a carrier is told that he/she has the risk to have diabetes .
In this case , the carrier can eat less candy and chocolate to prevent the intake of too much sugar . at the same time , if the carrier gives this information to the relatives , it will be useful for them to know that they may have diabetes in the future because of related genes and they can take action to reduce their intake of sugar to prevent the disease .
Otherwise , if the other parties did not know , they may develop diabetes in the future without any prevention .
In conclusion , we can tell that the benefits of disclosing genetic risk to the carrier 's relatives outweigh the costs .
Therefore , it would be better for the carrier to be obligated to give the information to the relatives in order to let them be able to prevent the potential disease through daily exercise .
Among the many types of disease , a large number are caused by genetics .
Genetic disorders may or may not be hereditary and it is sometimes hard to find out whether someone has these kinds of diseases .
It is debatable whether the carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives that his or her disease is caused by a gene .
From a legal point of you , the answer is no , but from an ethical one , the answer should be yes .
We ca n't make a law to push a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell his or her relatives about his genetic problem as
It is immoral and impractical .
Firstly , someone 's disease is private .
Privacy protection is an aspect of one 's human rights .
If a law requires someone to tell others his or her private information especially when they are not willing to do so , then
It is againt his or her human rights and it is against the law 's spirit as
The law 's spirit also includes fairness .
What is the basic difference between genetic disorders and other disorders ?
It is unfair to create a law which relates to genetic disorders .
In addition , it is impractical to make such a law .
A good law should be clear and easy to execute .
However , there are many problems with asking a carrier to tell his or her ralatives the cause of his or her diseases .
Firstly , what is the of the relatives ?
For example , does the carrier only need to tell his or her direct relatives , such as parents , brothers and sisters , or does he also need to tell relatives like his grandmother 's sister 's son 's daughter 's nephew ?
If you say that you need to tell direct relatives , it will be against the fairness of law .
Other relatives may have the same risk of having such a disease .
How can a law made by government exempt such a group of people from preparing to face their potetial disease ?
However , from an ethical point of view ,
the carrier himself or herself should feel a resposiblity to tell his or her relatives of their genetic disorder .
By doing this ,they may be able to save the lives of their relatives .
a carrier with a bad gene may not necessarily have the genetic disease if they have a healthy lifestyle before the age that the gene 's function becomes stronger .
A typical example is genetically caused hypertension .
Hypertension can be caused by genetic problems which make it harder to digest the fat and salt in the blood .
People usually get this kind of hypertesion after they become adults .
However , if they already know they have a gene that may make them more likely to get hypertention ,
then they can purposefully eat less salt and fat and thus avoid hypertension .
In a nutshell , our society can not push genetic condition carriers to disclose their disease to their relatives but he or she should be willing to do so .
By doing so , fewer of his or her loved ones will suffer from the genetic condition .
In the age of rapid technological advancement many medical breakthroughs are made possible .
Genetic testing is now available for individuals to decide to undergo .
It is able to detect illnesses or diseases and even a child 's parentage .
However , it will become a controversial issue because of the dilemma for a carrier of a known genetic risk whether to inform his or her relatives .
If knowledge of the genetic risk were to be shared within the family or relatives , who might have it also , then they may be able to take the necessary precautions to prevent it .
if it is a terminal genetic disease , most of the relatives will be upset to be made aware of it .
Therefore , some carriers will consider keeping it a secret .
This essay will discuss whether the carrier of a known genetic risk should tell his or her relatives or not .
Some say that the genetic risk that is found in a person should be kept secret because it is considered to be personal information which should be kept confidential .
Most patients will be depressed after being made aware of his or her conditions .
If someone is found to have a genetic disease after the test , he or she might not wish to inform relatives as he might upset his extended family .
Some will wish to keep it to themselves and hope to ensure that they will not bring any pessimism into their family .
Furthermore , some will not wish to become a burden to anyone as seeking medical attention is relatively costly .
Hence , some see it as being considerate to keep the genetic risk of getting a disease confidential .
On the other hand , others may think that it will be considerate to tell the relatives because the latter will have a high chance of having the same genetic risk .
Hence , they will be able to seek help from medical specialists to find a cure or to take action to reduce the risk of getting the disease .
Nevertheless , it will depend on the kind of genetic disease in the context of current medical technology .
For example , breast cancer is a genetic disease and it can be cured if it is diagnosed in the early stage .
Hence , with the knowledge of having a risk , the relatives of people with this genetic disease will have a medical check-up which might save them by diagnosing it at an earlier stage .
In conclusion , it will be considerate to inform relatives of their risk of having the same genetic disease .
Although there might be a lot of challenges along the way in seeking medical attention , such as financial issues , everyone should be given the right to know their family 's inherented medical conditions .
However , some think that it might be better to be ignorant of it and so continue leading a happy life .
In addition , some may think that knowing about having genetic risk of a disease will just add to their misery as there is nothing that they can do about it .
All-in-all , it depends on the individual and also the nature of the disease , but he or she should be obligated to inform relatives if there are possibilities of curing or preventing it .
Genectic testing is a personal decision , with the kowledge that there is a possiblity that one could be a carrier or not .
Those who are born into a family with a history of genetic disease should be allowed to undergo genetic testing , even if there is no risk at all .
Early pre-examination is healthy as it will cast away unwanted doubts and affect the psychology of those who are affected .
For a genetic risk carrier , there should be a choice with regards to informing his/her relatives or not .
They should not be forced or obligied to do so as it may negatively and drastically affect the emotions of the genetic risk carrier .
With regards to this choice , there must be some rules to the regulation and exercise of personal freedom in decision making .
If the genetic risk carrier is a minor or a child , then most likely the decision of informing the relative should be made with the consideration of the patient 's parents or legal guardian .
Such patients are still emotionally volatile or they may be unaware of the consequences of genetic disorders due to their young age .
Furthermore , the act of informing others without the consent of the parents or the patients themselves could harm the psychological state of the affected family .
Thus , much thought needs to be given to the immediate family as it could cause unwanted consequences for the patient or the family members .
Some of the family may feel hurt , with regards to their family pride or reputation , with the knowledge of a genetic disorder running in their family .
However , there should be a sense of responsibility to inform their relatives since it is a genetic disorder .
There might be a possibility that the genetic disorder could also affect their relatives and any other families within the same family tree .
The importance of informing relatives of such genetic disease is vital as it may help to raise awareness and help prevent the genetic disorder .
Also , this information will help their relatives to make informed decisions and to similarly undergo genetic testing .
Thus , having the knowledge that a genetic disorder is benign would be beneficial for their emotional thoughts .
Also , if the results turn out to be otherwise , then the family can be emotionally and psychologically prepared for the future outcome and help them to make future decisions .
In addition , the genetic risk carrier would be given moral and emotional support from their relatives if it has been made known to them .
Having support from relatives is vital as they can reassure the genetic risk carrier that he/she is not alone in facing this illness . This will provide a morale boost as the whole family will share a common sentiment regarding the future prospect of the genetic disorder which could be inherited by anyone in the family .
Therefore , the decision to inform relatives of a genetic disorder will depend on the situation and background of the affected family , with the liberty of choice given to them in making the decision to inform others .
A person with a disorder , regardless of whether it is a mental or physical disorder , is always by his or her families .
When it comes to genetic issues , it is not that simple anymore .
Genetic disorder inheritance happens generation by generation , but not all of the offspring show the relevant symptoms .
Sometimes a family with a genetic disorder risk may not be able to detect the potential harm inside their bodies as none of their members display any observable symptoms of disorder .
As a result , when one of the members senses an abnormality , he or she should be aware whether the disorder in his or her body is a genetic risk or not .
Afterward , the carrier will face a serious ethical issue , which is whether to reveal the problem to his or her relatives or not .
If the symptoms of disorder become apparent in a child , the parent will be informed by the medics , then the whole family will be alerted to their bodies ' condition .
However , if the carrier is an adult , who has his own ability to choose whether to inform his or her relatives about the risk , then the situation will be more complex .
One may think that if the carrier is a caring person who loves his or her family more than himself , then there is no doubt that he or she will tell his or her family about the issue .
That is true and of course it is the obligation of a family member to protect and take care of the family .
Thinking of it another way , if a child knows that he has the risk of becoming a carrier , and the risk might also be inherited by his child in the future , he will be in a quandary .
And of course , he or she will consider not having any children after getting married , and the same thought goes to the cousins as well .
As a result , the family line could end the moment the adult carrier announces his diagnosis .
In China , the older generation with a traditional background will always think of having more children , as well as grandchildren , to make the family stronger .
The reason for this is that after WWII the population of China decreased dramatically and so the government encouraged the people to have more children .
During that period , if one of the family members developed symptoms of genetic disorder he would have had an ethical dilemma .
The medical treatment technology at that time was not advanced enough to completely cure him so
He had to choose whether to protect his family or make his family with a potential generic risk .
And so , he would have chosen not to undergo genetic disorder testing and let the truth be unknown forever .
This kind of ethical issue can not be judged by the others because they will not understand the position and duty of the carrier in the family .
To conclude , people should think carefully about the consequences of telling their relatives his or her genetic disorder .
It is an obligation for a carrier to inform his relatives , but also an obligation for a family member to the family .
Regardless , if the disorder is rarely fatal , or it does not cause any inconvenience to the carrier , then revealing the truth is always the right thing to do .
In my opinion , the carrier should tell his or her relatives about it .
One of the reasons why is because , as a carrier , she or he needs psychological support to get through the situation .
It will be hard for an individual to deal with the issue alone .
By telling his or her family , other than being a support , they could possibly help to find alternative solutions to the problem that she is facing .
Other than that , I believe that the strong bond we have with our family is the biggest pillar of support to the carrier .
Furthermore , as it is a genetic problem , it will be better for the carrier to inform his or her family as other family members might experience the same thing .
By making sure that they are aware of this genetic problem , they could have a full check-up themselves and it will be better if they could even prevent it from happening to themselves .
I find that it is important to inform , especially if the disease is contagious , as the carrier could prevent the disease from spreading out to the society .
For every action there are always positives and negatives .
I believe that some of the carriers will choose not to reveal their disease to the family members as they do not want to make their family members worry and feel uncomfortable or even feel ostracized by them .
Furthermore , as it could incur high financial costs for the treatment , the carrier might not want to be a burden to her family .
I can understand the point of view of the carrier .
She or he does not want to be the source of unhappiness in the family .
However , we will never know whether this negative effect will happen when the carrier decides to tell his or her family of the condition .
In conclusion , personally I feel that it is better for the carrier to inform her family members about the issue .
The carrier should be honest with his or her feelings and I find that it is the right of the family members to know what is going on in his or her life .
If anything bad happened in the carrier 's life , without informing the family members , it could be a huge regret in their life if she leaves without them knowing about it .
On top of that , it is better to think about solutions for her problem with the family members , as there are more heads to think about it , rather than thinking about it alone and struggling on your own .
In the end , I believe that the support , psychological or even monetary , from your family could help the carrier to fight the genetic disease .
It is true that there are many cancer patients who were given a second chance to live a normal life with strong emotional support from their loved one .
In my opinion , as long as we keep our mind healthy and strong , we can fight any disease as they come to us when we are fragile and weak .
As techonology has advanced , it has reached a stage whereby it has triggered some ethical dilemmas in relation to the acutual use of the techonology .
Genetic testing has been made possible , making it easy to tell if someone is a carrier of a known genetic risk through genetic testing .
If used for a good purpose it can prevent unnecessary unhappiness , however , it could also make a situation worse by revealing who the carrier in the family is .
The question is whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives . I think that the carrier should not be obligated to do so because I believe that he or she has the right not to know .
Firstly , genetic testing is not something that is compulsory .
Of course , some people may do it to make their futures slightly happier , however , the carrier , before the testing , can choose not to go for the test and simply live with unknowns and accept the facts .
If he chooses to live with the uncertainty of what his genes hold and is willing to accept it , he should be able to do that , and it has been something that was 'normal ' to everyone in the past before gentic testing was possible .
It could be better for him or her this way .
Some people might say that it is a way of preventing the birth of disabled babies and making them suffer in real-life .
I personally think this is a valid reason for going through the genetic testing , so that a family who can not afford to have a disabled child do not have to give birth to their child and make the entire family suffer .
However , I belive that the carrier has the right not to be obliged to tell anyone but does have the responsibility to take action to prevent ethical dilemmas .
If the result turned out to be something that the carrier can not accept then it would have been better not to know the truth .
I belive that even the carrier has the right not to know the true facts .
After realizing the he or she is a carrier , the emotional damage would be hard to bear .
It could possibly cause a problem in a family due to the fact that it creates more unhappiness in the family .
Overall , I belive that it entirely depends on the carrier to share the hard facts and face it with relatives but he has no obligation to do so .
In fact , I strongly think that the carrier should weigh both the positive and negative consequences of undertaking genetic testing and take the appropriate action for the results .
The emotional depression that the carrier might suffer and the sense of guilt could be greater than expected and could be a burden for life .
On the other hand , without knowledge of a genetic disorder , the family will stay positive and work together to overcome the disability .
I think the family will stay mentally healthy as it is , without having emotional stress .
Debates have been around for years about whether a carrier for a known genetic risk should be obligated to inform his or her relatives .
Any individual at risk for a disorder has the right to undergo genetic testing , but whether the results should be disclosed to others , especially close family or relatives , is a topic worth discussing .
This is an issue that needs to be addressed as a family-related ethical dilemma is involved .
In this essay several arguments will be pointed out in support of the view that any carrier of a known genetic risk should tell his or her relatives .
When we are born we are surrounded by our family and relatives , with them welcoming us to this new world .
We cry hard but we are not alone , it 's our family and relatives who support us growing up .
Hence , they should be the people to be grateful for and the people we would like to share our joy .
However , when it comes to any health issue or to the extent of a serious disorder , there may seem to be no point in sharing but this involves more than just the sharing of bad news .
One definitely has the right to disclose one 's health issues to someone , but it is also one 's responsibility to inform the family and close relatives .
In the case of when a health issue is related to genetic risk , the keyword is " genetic " as this highlights the risk of passing down the disorder to the next generation .
Therefore , I would agree that it is obligatory for a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell his or her relatives to avoid any family-related ethical dilemma that could arise in the future .
Despite the argument that it is up to the individual to disclose such health issues or to bear it alonef , it is certainly helpful to share with close relatives in order to have a proper discussion and look for solutions .
By doing so , one will feel less stressed in facing the disorder risk .
Relatives will certainly be supportive and be more caring towards the carrier of a known genetic risk .
By informing them , the carrier is never alone in fighting the battle of such disorder risk .
On top of that , as the genetic risk may pass down to next generation , it will involve more than just one family .
therefore I would agree that there is an obligation to tell the relatives of both parties when one is about to get married and have children .
This would avoid more family-related ethical dilemmas arising .
There are more advantages to support the view to informing the relatives once the results of the test are known .
In conclusion , in order to avoid the family-related ethical dilemma , it is best for any carrier of a known genetic risk to inform his/her relatives .
The benefits of doing so are able to outweigh the disadvantages .
More support must be provided through different means to give better direction to someone trying to decide whether they should inform their relatives .
The decision to undergo genetic testing can only be made by the individual at risk for a disorder .
This is the common law in society .
However , it leads to a new problem - " should a carrier of a known genetic risk be obligated to tell his or her relatives ?
" This issue has been discussed for a long time .
However , there are still diverse points of view among people .
Thus , we are going to identify the advantages and disadvantages of genetic testing .
Firstly , I believe most of us will agree with the sentences below : " I will be anxious about my family members when he or she tells me that he or she is a carrier of a known genetic risk " .
Frequently , the intention of the carriers in not wanting to tell their families is to continue their own life without causing anxiety to their families .
It is obvious that it will be better for one person to be worried than many .
However , many of the carriers are not strong enough to overcome the challenges alone .
With the families ' support , there would be more energy to fight against the demon .
Demons are not easily defeated and much energy and psychological support is required .
Families give you the courage and support which you can not find by yourself .
It is the most essential element in overcoming the challenges .
Besides that , the risk of genetic disorder is so serious that it can not be described .
The seriousness can be larger than our imagination .
Being bed-bound for the remaining life , or even dying immediately , are consequences which we can not imagine .
Families are very important in our life .
Without their concern and support .
They play an important role in our life which can not be substituted .
A known genetic risk can also affect the next generation critically .
Therefore , it is our responsibility to tell the relatives to prevent the occurrence of undesired consequences .
Generally , the clinic or hospital will not tell the carrier 's family without the agreement of the carrier .
It is the ethical duty of staff in hospital to keep the confidentiality of patients .
We can not blame them if they are liable for the undesired consequences .
However , hospitals can provide a councilor to advise the carrier about possible action to be taken .
Therefore , these kind of circumstances will not happen again and again .
It is a method that benefits both parties which is a win-win situation .
In conclusion , a carrier of a known genetic risk is encouraged to tell his or her relatives about the known genetic risk .
However , there may be some special cases which are hard to define .
Thus , advice from hospital plays an important role in this .
The carrier is responsible for balancing his or her own interest and the benefits of family and even society .
It is a hard decision to make but with the most appropriate action , it will create good circumstances for the carrier and families in the future .
With the risk of having a genetic disorder , many individuals have taken the decision to undergo genetic testing .
As the results will be known once the tests are done , each individual that is diagnosed as a genetic risk carrier face an ethical problem . They could warn their relatives about their risk of having the same genetic risk ,
Or they could choose to keep silent until the next carrier is diagnosed .
From my point of view , the carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives , for the following reasons .
First of all , from the angle of human rights , a genetic risk carrier should not be obligated to tell the truth to others .
This diagnosis should be regarded as private to carriers .
They may not want this fact to influence their life or let others know about it .
This is reasonable since disclosure of the truth of being a carrier may make them be discriminated against or sympathized with by others which would not be positive for their life .
Secondly , the relatives of the carrier can also choose to do genetic testing regardless of the dignosis of the carrier .
When people want to check whether they are genetic risk carriers , consult a doctor about it .
If they do not want to think too much about it and view it as a problem , they may just ignore the possibility .
However , if a dignosed carrier is obligated to tell his or her relatives , the relatives will be forced to know their higher chance of being genetic risk carriers .
they would have to accept the truth which may make their life miserable .
Many people argue that making disclosure obligatory may help more people , such as the relatives of the carriers , saving their lives through early diagnosis .
However , this is not exactly true when other factors including psychological and social influence are taken into consideration .
If one such relative is told that he or she may have a higher risk of getting ill , he or she may be worried about the future , of partners , spouse and colleagues choosing to leave , and many other situations which could mean that the relative 's life is ruined .
On the other side , as stated above , a person who wants to find out and is prepared to face the result can choose to do the genetic testing individually .
In a nutshell , the carrier of a known genetic risk should have their own right to decide whether to tell their relatives or not .
This should be accepted from the point of human rights , as well as many other social reasons .
Otherwise , making it an obligation will restrict the choices of carriers and bring a lot of confusion to their relatives .
For a carrier of genetic disorder knowing that he or she is a carrier causes more dilemmas than getting the disorder .
I agree that a carrier of a known genetic risk is obligated to tell his or her relatives .
There are four reasons why people should not be shy and should share their problems regarding genetic disorder .
Firstly , the carrier and his or her family can take precautions , by physically taking action to reduce the chance of it being inherited by offspring and also mentally if the action fails to prevent it being inherited .
Many syndromes such as Down Syndrome and Taylor Syndrome can be prevented if the mother takes medication and does not consume harmful goods during the pregnancy period .
This information may not be known to the mother if she does not tell her relatives of her condition .
The more people ( relatives ) know her problem , the more information is available .
If all efforts have been made but the children still suffer from the syndrome then the family have to accept this fact and do whatever they can to provide a good environment for their children 's growth .
This is not the parent 's fault because there is still a chance of the gene being inherited .
So , they have to also prepare mentally .
Secondly , genetic diseases require expensive treatment and medication .
Albinism is one example .
people with albinism have sensitive skin and it needs regular treatment .
Unlike people with a high proportion of skin pigment , people with albinism are prone to sunburn and other skin diseases .
If they do n't treat their body well , such as by using sunglasses or wearing sunscreen outdoors , the chances are high that they will get skin problems that may also lead to cancer .
Once you suffer from cancer , the medication is very expensive .
To prevent the bigger problem it takes a lot of effort to take care of your body .
If the carrier does n't tell his or her relatives , it may be too late to get their support and prepare financially .
Thirdly , some diseases are not noticeable and may lead to serious health problems .
One such disease is sickle cell anaemia .
Usually people are not aware that they carry the sickle cell gene and this may lead to circulatory problems such as blood clotting .
If the parents know that one of them is a carrier and disclose the information to their relatives then they can take their children to undergo genetic testing and should not be shy of it because it is for the sake of their children 's health .
Fourthly , it is important for the parents to give psychological support to their children with a genetic disorder .
When their children become teenagers , a lot of social problems may arise .
People and friends often mock your conditions .
A strong mental condition and conviction must be built from within and from the close friends and family .
If not their family then who else will be willing to do that ?
It is not a difficult job for the family if they have prepared psychologically first by disclosing the information of the probability that their children may suffer from the genetic disorder .
In this modern world technology has improved a lot compared with last century .
Particularly , in the medical field , there has been a great improvement in the treatments for many formally incurable diseases and also in genetic testing which is a method used to diagnose an individual at risk for a genetic disorder .
The medical authorities claim that only the individual who is at risk of a genetic disorder can make the decision to undergo genetic testing .
However , once a test has been conducted and the results are known , a family-related ethical dilemma is born .
The question is whether the carrier of a known genetic risk should tell his or her relatives .
In my opinion , the carrier of a known genetic risk has to tell his or her relatives about it .
This is because his or her relatives have the right to know .
As many people realize , a genetic disorder can be related to the carrier 's relatives , that is , if one of the family members is at risk of a genetic disorder then other family members also have almost the same risk of having it , so this problem should be treated seriously by the family .
Every family member has the human right to know what is going on with them .
If they do not even know that they are at risk of a genetic disorder ,
For instance , John is informed by his doctor that he is at risk of a genetic disorder but he does not tell his brother James about this .
Although telling James about it is horrible to some extent , he should know what will likely be going on with him .
It might be beneficial for his future if he is aware of the risk of having this disorder .
The next point is that telling relatives can raise their awareness of having a similar genetic disorder , preventing certain genetic disorders from affecting them .
Genetic disorders are innate , but the great improvement in medical treatment makes it possible for humans to prevent the disorder or to reduce the negative effects the disorder has on themselves .
In addition , doctors usually quote a statement , " Prevention is better than a cure " which gives us the idea that preventing a disorder from happening has far more advantages than curing it .
Awareness of having a genetic disorder may help in diagnosing a genetic disorder for a person , and therefore , this may make the prevention of a certain disorder possible .
For example , hypertension is partially due to genetic factors , but environmental factors also play an important role .
People who are aware of having such a disorder can prevent the disorder from happening by adopting a healthy lifestyle , including having a balanced diet and at least 30 minutes of exercise every day .
To sum up , a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
It is their human right to know , and it may also save their lives by preventing the disorder from happening .
Together with the advancement of technology over the past decades,medical advancement has increased exponentially and further enhancements are still constantly being upgraded.Empower doctors with advanced medical knowledgeand they will be able to conduct genetic testing on patients to help them prevent disease and take the necessary steps to protect their life.However , once a test has been conducted and the results are known,the question of disclosing the results to his or her relatives become a challenging issue to both patient and doctor.In my opinion,I strongly support the patient 's obligation to inform relatives .
As it is a genetic risk,the patient 's next of kin might have a high chance of carrying the risk,hence the need to inform their relatives so that the necessary preventative actions can be taken before unforeseen circumstances occur.For example,if you are the only child in a family and , unfortunately,you are suffering from a genetic disease , then the genetic trait might be passed on to your child . by letting your family members know of the situation,it would lessen family stress and suffering on forcing you to settle down and have children.However , social ethical issues , like discrimination and privacy , are important concerns and potential barriers to forcing patients or doctors to disclose information to the patient 's relatives.It challenges the confidentiality and privacy principles.Currently , under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ( HIPAA ) in the United States,there is no legal requirement to disclose information to relatives.it is up to the patient to decide whether to disclose to their family members.Early disclosure to family members brings about positive reactions and prevention,as in the case of Angelina Jolie,she chose to disclose information and underwent treatment to reduce her risk of breast cancer significantly to under five percent.I recall that her reason for disclosing her story was that she did not want to live under the shadow of cancer .
However,there are people against the decision of revealing private information . in the case of Alzheimer patients,it is the patient 's own choice to disclose information.However,research has shown that doctors have tried to interpret how and to whom Alzheimer disease should be disclosed to in order to the potential negative impact on family members ( DementiaToday,2012 ) .There are associations that provide help to Alzheimer patients , for example Alzheimer 's Association ( Alzheimer 's Association,1980 ) .Although there are thousands of genetic diseases that might not be receiving all the help and support of everyone,the immediate understanding and support of family members is of the utmost help to patients in their difficult time .
In conclusion,the state should pass a legal bill to provide information to doctors on to what extent a doctor should reveal to relatives the patient 's genetic disease and in which situations it should be the patient 's decision.In addition,the state could also encourage the creation of assistance schemes to aid needy patients and to encourage them to open up for the benefit of themselves and family members.Although it may face challenges from social ethical issues,in the long term,with appropriate encouragement and aid from the government,more individuals would have a different view of acceptance and take appropriate measures to protect their own health and their loved ones .
Nowadays , the study of genetics has progressed well due to rapid technological advancement .
Not long ago , the human genome project , sponsored by several large multinational corporations ( MNCs ) , was started .
In comparison , in the field of genetic testing , which enables people to be made aware of the risk of a possible genetic disorder , the technology .
While most people agree that each individual has his own right to decide whether to undergo a genetic test or not , they have different opinions on whether it is the patient 's responsibility or freedom to share the result with his or her relatives .
In my opinion , the patients who are carriers of some known genetic risk should share the truth with their family members .
Admittedly , it is a social obligation to be responsible for the life of other people .
To the whole society , it is a duty .
Take H1N1 as an example - all the people in Singapore , including students at school , travellers at Changi Airport , workers in the office as well as passengers on the street are forced by law to have their temperature taken and report the result to the relevant government authority .
To those family members who care about them , it is also a moral obligation .
How can they not tell their loved ones who they really are and put their loved ones in danger ?
The basis of a family is that everyone trusts and loves each other unconditionally .
Without trust and love , there is no difference between a family and a group of strangers living together .
Hence , it is essential to tell their family members about the risk of their genetic disorder both as a social responsibility and a means of protecting the family unit .
Moreover , telling their family members the truth is the fastest and easiest way to get their support .
Without the support of loved ones , patients ' life is no better than death .
Family members are one of the closest groups of people from whom they can get comfort and are a crucial factor for them to successfully get over any possible troubles as a result of genetic disorder .
A study by New York University in 2010 shows that patients with family members around generally recover 2-4 days faster than those taken care of by professional nurses .
Even for those patients with terminal diseases , the duration of their survival is 30 % longer due to the family support .
Some people may say that telling the truth may cause some unnecessary doubt and panic which will endanger the family harmony .
While every family goes through difficult situations , the more troubles that a family has gone through together , the greater bond will be between the family members as well as the greater amount of trust , love and understanding .
Hence , for a family in which the members truly believe in and love each other ,all these troubles will just serve to make them stronger .
Just as the lyrics of Kelly Clarkson say , what does n't kill you makes you stronger .
As a member of Asian society , where genetic testing is not common practice , I think that it is the patient 's choice whether he or she wants to tell his or her relatives about his or her disease .
The courage to take the genetic test and to inform their relatives about the risk that they may have could result in people being judgmental despite it being a risk and not a confirmed case .
Furthermore , since it is the person 's genes that are affected , he has the right to determine with whom he wants to share the information .
Nevertheless , while I feel that a carrier should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives about the genetic risk , I would like to suggest that the person should at least share the information with her or his potential partner ( husband or wife ) since the individual 's genetic risk may affect their future children .
Many people in our society are not well informed about many genetic diseases and many of them may judge or at least differentiate those who have genetic diseases since they feel that the patients are abnormal or 'weird' .
This is because many relate genetic diseases to those such as Bubble-Boy disease , autism or down-syndrome .
In those diseases , many who are affected do actually have different physical characteristics compared to those without the genetic diseases .
While we do know that we should not discriminate against them based on their limitations , many people still do so with or without them realizing it .
In this particular case , we are discussing whether a person should tell his relatives about having the risk of a particular genetic disease .
It is normal for people to demand fair and similar treatment to others and therefore it is normal for people to try to keep some of their secrets or personal issues to themselves in case people judge them or treat them differently . Many people really love to hear what they want to hear and therefore they may just ignore the word 'risk ' and assume that the person is suffering from the disease .
To prevent that from happening , I feel that it is up to the person whether he wants to share the information with his family since his family may either be paranoid or judge him and act differently .
Especially when it is only a risk , the option is really his since he is not actually suffering from a disease yet .
There may be some people who say that it is necessary to tell the family members about the risk since some of them may be affected . While I do think that this view has a point , how much you can trust your family regarding this issue may also need to be considered .
Maybe we can trust our immediate family members but can we really trust all the other relatives ?
Furthermore , since the genetic risk or genetic disease is a very personal issue , it is up to the person 's judgement to tell the relatives about it .
However , as I said earlier , it is better for the person to at least tell his or her future partner since his genetic risk may affect his children later .
This information needs to be acknowledged by the other party before they make the decision to get married and have children .
There may be instances where both the husband and wife are carriers and therefore they should not have any children since their child may not be able to survive even after they are born .
in a less extreme case , the child may be disabled .
This piece of information does play a role in family planning matters , therefore , although no one is obliged to disclose their genetic risk to anyone , they should be encouraged to tell their future partner .
In conclusion , whether or not the carrier wants to tell his relatives of his genetic risk , the choice is his because it is his own genes and he has the full right to do so .
He may have different considerations such as whether people will judge him or that it may result in making his family worry for nothing when thinking of whether he should tell his relatives . no matter what choice he makes , we need to respect it and we have no right to say that he must tell his relatives about it .
We all know that life is priceless and we have no right to judge a person 's death .
With the improvements in technology , a new life with a genetic risk can be detected .
'Genetic ' refers to the chance of inheriting a disorder or disease .
Therefore an entirely new dilemma is born : should the carrier of a known genetic risk be obligated to tell his or her relatives ?
This essay will discuss the reasons why the relatives should be informed that their children have a genetic risk .
One of the reasons that the parents should be informed is that they have to decide whether they are capable of raising a child with a genetic risk .
The child with a genetic risk may not have the ability to work , to the family with the others and most of the time they are not acceptable to the majority of people .
They may not be able to enjoy things normal people can enjoy .
This competitive world is cruel to those who are not able to survive .
Parents and relatives have to work longer than expected to support their child if he/she is not able to support himself/herself .
The situation may become worse if the child has a disease like cancer or heart disease , as it would means that parents take on the heavy burden of medical fees .
Not only the child but also the entire family will suffer .
It is still early for parents to decide whether they can support a new life who is not able to work and may suffer pain for their entire life .
The other reason that parents should know whether the baby they have is a carrier of a genetic risk is for the nation 's good .
There are always newspaper reports that a new born baby has be abandoned at hospital after they realized the baby had diseases that need a huge amount of money to treat .
countries like Singapore are short of manpower to contribute to the nation .
However , every year the government has to spend a lot to help disabled people such as medical subsidies and building special schools to educate them .
Without increasing the number of disabled people in a nation , the government is able to concentrate on developing in other ways like the military and education .
As citizens of a nation , they have the responsibility to support their country in many ways .
Moreover , in the world we are living in today , many abortions are conducted in hospital every day .
It is easier for people to accept it morally .
Therefore I believe the parents have the right to know the health of their child .
Many people may support the theory that all people have the right to enjoy the world , especially religious people .
However , the problem is whether people really enjoy their life if they have to stay in hospital everyday and with all the needles and endless pain .
Parents know what is best for their children , thus they will make the right decision after they have been informed .
Also , human beings should improve the medical field in order to prevent the tragedy happening .
I think a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
Genetic testing is a personal choice .
People should have full control of his/her information and it is his/her right to decide whether or not to disclose it to someone else .
As far as I am concerned , when a couple are going to have babies , they are going to run a few tests to see whether their children could have some genetic diseases .
The results are disclosed to husbands and wifes .
This is not the case I am talking about here .
The most obvious reason for those who argue for this opinion is that the relatives of the carrier are at high risk of carrying these diseases .
They have the right to know whether they are at risk .
Also , telling them the result can let them greatly reduce the cost for multiple testing .
They can also take immediate measures to reduce the possibility of having this disease .
If person has a disease C , which might be the result of gene A ,
then he runs a test and discover that he has the gene AA .
This means both of his parents have gene A and they are both at a high risk of having disease C. They could save the cost of running two separate tests to see whether they are at a high risk of having disease C. If he runs a test and discovers that he has the gene Aa ,
then this means one of his parents has gene A and one cost of testing could be saved .
His relatives can then take measures , if this disease can some how be prevented , to stop this disease from taking their lives .
However , this can also be achieved by personal choice .
Someone can choose to tell their relatives if they are at risk .
Most people care about their relatives so , if there is no serious consequence of telling them , I assume most of them will tell their relatives to be careful .
Someone might also choose to encourage their relatives to run a gene test if they are concerned about negative consequences that may occur when they disclose their genetic results .
There are possible negative consequences that people might face if they disclose their genetic results to their relative .
If a person is obliged to tell his/her relatives , he or she might be discriminated against by those who do not carry this gene .
He or she might even be advised not to get married or have children .
For example , if an unmarried person has gene Aa and gene aa is sufficient for a very serious disease ,
then after he takes the test and is obliged to tell his relatives , everyone will know that he is a carrier .
So all the married couples take a test and discover they are not carriers.They might subconsiously see him as different and worry that he will find a wife who will carry this gene as well .
Third , it is hard to define relatives .
If a gene runs in the family , and one of the family members test positive , then who does he need to tell .
If it is a big family , is he obliged to tell everyone ?
Spouses usually have very close relationships so if person A tells his family that he has this gene , his uncle C knows and tells his wife D that he needs to take a test because his cousin has this disease .
However wife D is not even at risk of having this disease .
Then wife D might tell her mother , who likes to gossip on her way to the theatre .
In less than a week half of the town knows person A has a risk gene , and his family might be a genetically risked family .
Then nobody will want to marry A , or his relatives .
This is a potential consequence if one does not have full control of his/her information , especially when the party that he is obliged to disclose his information to is a potentially large group ( relatives ) .
In conclusion , a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
Carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives
Nowadays , people not only pursue the comfort of their own lives but also a better future for their offspring .
Since the technology of modern society is so advanced , it has become possible for people to make the decision to take a genetic test so as to be clear whether or not they carry a genetic risk which can affect the next generation .
The debatable question , an ethical dilemma , is whether people are responsible for telling their relatives that they carry a known genetic risk .
In my opinion , the responsibility of telling family and relatives is quite obvious
and there are two basic reasons .
The first one is the importance of being responsible for your well-being and health of your relatives and the second one is being responsible for future generations .
Knowing about your genetic risk is good for the well-being and health of your relatives
because , if you are carrying that genetic risk , then there is a possibility that your relatives , such as parents or siblings , carry the same genetic risk as well .
The genetic risk that you carry may or may not affect your health and put you in danger .
If you have n't undergone the genetic testing , it is down to luck and fate what will happen to both of you and your relatives .
However , if you have undergone the test and know that you are a carrier , then you are responsible for your whole family .
Even though you can not eliminate the risk completely , you can at least try to be alert to avoid getting the disease .
As for those in your family who are more likely to be affected , they can go to the hospital to have the checks regularly .
Therefore , telling the families and the relatives to be prepared to fight the disease and even to prevent developing the disease is your responsibility .
Furthermore , you are also responsible for your future generations by telling the truth about being a carrier of a genetic risk .
If your wife is not aware of the truth and gives birth to a baby , it will be possible for your child to carry the same genetic risk as well .

However , if you tell the truth to your wife and relatives , you offer a choice about whether to have a child or not .
If you still decide to have a baby in the future , when technology has advanced , it might be that the ability to alter genes will be perfected and widely used , you can then choose to give birth to babies by giving them a brighter future .
This is the responsibility of being a parent .
In my opinion , this seems to be the main purpose of undergoing genetic testing in the first place .
In conclusion , once you have undergone the genetic testing and are aware of carrying a specific genetic risk , there is a responsibility to your relatives , yourself , and future generations to tell them the truth .
To tell or not to tell
Consider this case - we decide to undergo genetic testing and know the result of it .
We found that we actually are a genetic risk carrier .
Then it becomes difficult to know whether we need to tell our relatives who may carry this genetic risk as well .
There are many things we need to consider .
Every choice we make may have a huge impact on their whole life .
As a result , what should we do ?
Tell them or keep this secret until we die ?
Many people feel that we should tell our relatives since we really care about their health .
For example , diabetes is a kind of genetic disease .
Once we discover that we carry this genetic risk , it is better for us to tell our family members because they may carry it as well .
If we tell them , they may start paying more attention to their daily habits like eating less sugary food and keeping a positive outlook .
it is important for young people because
The earlier we tell them , the better their habits will be for the rest of their lives .
What 's more , they may undergo genetic testing as well to see whether they are carrying it or not which is also better for them .
However , some people may argue about why we want to interfere with their lives ?
Sometimes it will be extremely hard for them to accept the news , especially if they find out that they or their descendants may have a severe disease such as blood disease which is untreatable .
Imagine you are living a normal life when suddenly one day your relative tells you that there is a possibility that you may encounter some disease in the future . How will you feel ?
It may affect our daily lives and we will think about it every day .
We become so anxious that we can not focus on anything .
At the same time , there will also be a chance that the genetic test result is not correct which could mean they are actually wasting their lives worrying about it and so actually we are bringing trouble to them .
Personally I feel that we should take our responsibility to tell them the truth seriously .
Since this will really affect their lives , we should try to make it in a positive way .
We can not let it go .
We should know that although we may affect their lives , we can still help them make correct choices in the future .
It is only after we tell them that they will start paying attention to their health .
They will consider whether to give a birth to a new baby because of this genetic problem and they will start finding ways to try to prevent their baby from carrying this genetic risk as well .
They always have the choice whether to undergo the genetic test or not .
Maybe after we tell them , they will do so and discover more about themselves .
I know it will have a huge impact on them , but we should remember that they are our loved ones and so we need to tell them and help them .
A genetic risk carrier should be obliged to tell
Genetic testing will be conducted when an individual is at risk of a possible disease .
Once the test is done , whether the results should be disclosed to his or her relatives has caused extensive controversy .
Some say it is a kind of invasion of the carrier 's privacy which should be protected .
He or she has the right not to tell anyone .
However , in my opinion , it is the obligation of the carrier of a known genetic risk to tell his or her relatives about his or her actual situation .
This essay will consider this from two aspects .
First of all , it can be a warning for the family members of the patient and make them aware of the possible disease that they may also have .
As we all know , genetic risk carriers are likely to pass the genetics to their family members .
Once one person in the family is found to be carrying risky genes , other members in his or her family may also have the risk of disease .
Some of the diseases may not show symptoms until the carrier is old enough .
Therefore , telling the relatives about the situation may prevent a lot of trouble in this way and allow time for proper treatment .
Sometimes lives may even be saved if they are told early and undergo timely treatment .
So for the consideration of the other family members , the relatives should be informed .
Secondly , it can prevent the genetic disease from being passed to the next generation if they intend to have babies .
They should let their spouse know about his or her situation before marriage .
They need to ask for a doctor 's advice before they plan to have a baby .
Some genetic diseases will pass only to boys rather than girls , some are the opposite .
If the carrier refuses to tell his or her spouse the truth , another person may have the risk of inheriting the genetic disease .
I noticed a real story in the newspaper years ago .
A couple in China have a 5 year old son .
Their son unfortunately fell ill and was diagnosed with a kind of genetic disease which is very serious .
They were told that the wife 's family was carrying the polygenetic disorder which can pass only to boys rather than girls .
Therefore their son had inherited the genetic disease .
However , the wife had already known about the polygenetic disorder before the marriage and she did not tell her husband .
The son died after one year 's treatment and the couple got divorced after that .
If the wife had not hidden the truth and asked for a doctor 's advice before they had a baby , the tragedy would not have happened .
In a nutshell , the carrier of a known genetic risk has the responsibility to tell his or her relatives .
On the one hand , it can make members of the carrier 's family aware of the possible disease they may have and so that they can receive treatment in time if possible .
On the other hand , the disease may pass to the next generation if the carrier hides the truth .
Nowadays , with the advancement of technology , it is easy to do genetic testing .
We can not deny that genetic testing really helps people when they face a disorder .
However , I think that genetic information is private and should be protected by the law .
Therefore , I think that a person with known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives .
There are three reasons outlined below .
Firstly , the information concerning the genes is something personal which should also be private like people 's bank card PIN .
Other people should not be told without the person 's permission even though they are his or her family or relatives .
The government should make the law protect this kind of privacy .
If people 's genetic information is told to other people ,
They may know the person 's potential diseases or other bad things .
They may be biased towards this person even abandon him or her .
People do not have the ability to choose their genes , they should not be thought badly of because of bad genes .
So I think that whatever the gene is or whether the gene is shared with their parents , it should not be told to anyone , even his or her family or relatives .
Secondly , the carrier of a known genetic risk may destroy the peace of a family or even damage the relationship between the children and the adults .

However happy they were before , there would be some barriers which will destroy the family gradually .
The relationship between the parents and their children should not be tested only in the genetic way ; it is something much deeper .
The parents give knowledge and love to the children , meanwhile they feel happy with the company of the children .
The children rely on the parents to live .
When they grow up , they take care of their elderly parents and thank them for their dedication .
The relationship between parents and children is about love and dedication .
Nobody would want to see the scene of a broken family due to the carrier of a known genetic risk .
Therefore , I think that the carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives without the person 's permission .
Finally , the technology of genetic testing is not very advanced currently .
There also exists a possibility of inaccurate testing .
If the inaccurate testing is not found by the doctor , the family and the children may be sad and struggle for their whole life .
Therefore I think the carrier of a know genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives .
Therefore , considering people 's privacy and the existence of inaccurate testing , for the peace of the family , I support that the carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives without the person 's permission .
A Carrier of a Known Genetic Risk Should be Obligated to Tell His or Her Relatives
More and more illnesses have been found to be related to some genes with the development of the medical technology .
People will know whether they carry a disease in their genes after they have done a genetic test .
If there is no problem , that will be wonderful .
However , not everybody is so lucky so they must make sure they do not carry any disease genes .
Therefore , once people find they are carrying the disease genes , they should be responsible in telling their relatives , at least their family members .
It may be awkward and embarrassing for a person to tell relatives that he or she is a carrier of a known genetic risk .
But they are all from one family and have the same forefathers which means that they share the same genes to some extent .
Therefore there is nothing to be shy for or afraid of .
If the person tells their relatives that he or she carries a disease gene , his or her relatives can go to hospital to check whether they also have a disease gene .
Then the relatives can prepare themselves to prevent the disease from occurring .
Also , they can prevent the disease being passed to their offspring .
If the relatives carry a disease gene , they can share the experience with him or her and offer some help , and they can also teach him or her how to communicate with others about this issue .
If he or she gets married , he or she must tell his or her partner that he carries a disease gene .
Then they can have a healthy baby with the help of the doctors .
Or else , if he holds back the genetic risk , they may have an unhealthy baby and may cause the death of the baby or the end of their marriage .
There is a story I watched on TV where
A couple did not have a child after their marriage for a long time . Their parents were anxious about it and asked them to go to hospital to check if there was a problem .
After coming back from the hospital , the man told his parents that the problem was that he carried a disease gene which means that they can not have a baby in their lifetime .
The woman did not know the test result , but she overheard the talk and decided to divorce her husband .
After getting the divorce certificate , the man showed her the test report ; it stated that the woman carried the disease gene instead of the man .
At that time , the woman knew how much her husband loved her but she had ruined her happiness .
Tears showed nothing .
People can not avoid carrying the disease genes that they are born with .
However , they can avoid the disease genes being inherited by their children .
Telling their relatives that they may be at risk of carrying a disease gene can make their family members bond closely and also many risks and conflicts can be avoided .
Genetic testing has become a beneficial way to predict and protect each individual at risk of a disorder .
However , there arises a family-related ethical dilemma if it is right to tell a carrier 's family once the test has been conducted and the results are known .
I am most inclined to believe that his or her relatives have the right to know the result .
The answer is simply that everyone , especially our family , has the right to know the truth .
Though it is said that genetic testing involves emotional and social risks due to the test results , while the potential negative impacts of the risk still exist , the consequence will be significant if other members of his or her family do not know .
Then they are unable to find a suitable method to protect themselves and prepare themselves emotionally .
Take Angeline Jolie for example , she is famous but she still revealed the truth about her genetic testing on the development of her breast cancer risk .
Everything is not so bad if you know how to look on the bright side with hope .
People may feel angry , depressed , or even guilty about their results .
In some cases , a carrier can suffer tension within the family because the result is also related to the others ' risk somehow .
However , I believe it is a common reaction to this situation .
In addition , though it can be possible in some cases that he or she and the family suffer specific discrimination in employment and their social life , how would people face more dramatic tragedies such as sickness or death if they can not even overcome this harsh situation .
Life is hard but people can not blame it for being unfair .
It is just because you are not strong enough to overcome the hard times .
Furthermore , living with a secret is not a good feeling , especially if the situations of other relatives become worse , you may feel guilty and depressed .
Moreover , the truth can not be hidden forever and , when it is revealed , the more shocking and upsetting it will be .
As a result , it is in the interest of the carriers and their relatives that the genetic testing result is disclosed .
Last but not least , though genetic testing is a personal matter , disclosing the result to your family can improve and develop understanding and sympathy for each other as well as promoting awareness of taking care of everyone 's health .
That plays an important role in the possibility that relatives can overcome the discrimination of society and their anxiety about the risks .
In a nutshell , I believe that people should be obligated to tell their relatives about the genetic testing result for the good of their health .
It could be very difficult for them but it is necessary for the carriers and their family .
In addition , emotional preparation and the way you explain your genetic condition are also important so that you can convey the correct information to your family and relatives and if necessary to guide them if he/she wish to conduct similar genetic testing .
The Impact Of Social Media
Social media plays a vital role in our lives today .
It is almost impossible for us to keep way from it .
I started using Facebook a year ago,when I had just arrived in Singapore .
Now I have over 500 friends on Facebook and every day .
We know each others ' status , changes and so on through the social media .
For example , if we change our contact numbers , we will not send a text message to each individual any longer .
Instead , we will post a message and tag our friends to inform them of this kind of change .
If you are not on it , you will just get lost .
In certain ways , social media has brought us quite a lot of convenience .
It is becoming even more convenient than talking on the phone since it is free .
We discuss everything we like and we have more personal space . Our friends also have more access to what we are doing and what we like
and we also get a chance to talk to public figures , such as pop stars , and get to know them better .
In China , a lot of government organizations have open blogs to communicate with people , like firefighters , police stations and so on .
Social media allows them to explain situations or inform people of what is going on .
In fact much of their work is done with the help of social media , such as looking for missing people and so on .
With more convenient and communications , the relationship between government and people is largely improved .
What 's more , various cultures can be shown to us through social media .
We can discover more news and culture through social media .
From this viewpoint , social media has shortened our distance .
However , we get less opportunity and give less importance to talking face to face since social media is so convinient , advanced and interesting .
even when we gather together , people find themselves having fewer topics to talk about than before and choose to rely on their social media again .
When we are far away , social media makes it seem as if we are infront of each other , while sometimes when we are by each others ' side , we seem to be far away .
This feeling makes people 's relationship less stable , secure and reliable than before .
Besides , there are more people showing their pictures of delicious food or travelling experiences .
To some extent , this makes our life more luxurious and blundering .
For myself , I long to visit some places after I see the beautiful pictures taken by my friends .
Sometimes I can not sleep well because of excitement .
Social media makes our lifestyle so fast and leaves us less time to think about our life .
Social media is becoming more important and we need to think more to make it serve us better and better .
Interpersonal skills , like any other skills , require practice .
Besides that , these skills require time to develop and adapt .
burgeoning social media definitely has its place ; but , like all good things , it is better to have it in moderation .
Convenience and efficiency are two very important uses of social media .
While millions of users are connected at any one time , any information can be readily available for their perusal .
This improves the connectivity between the users .
For example , one is able to send notifications , and other information we used to have in hardcopy previously , over the web and the process takes seconds .
The receipentwill then receive the information almost immediately depending on the quality of the network .
This covenience can be percieved as almost in real-time .
Next , communication is also greatly improved .
In the past , communication was done by one of many forms such as telegram , postal service and poor-quality voice calls .
With the invention of applications such as Skype and Facetime , any individual can phase out most of the old fashioned communication methods .
Aside from hearing the voice , a webcamera can also be affixed to emulate a 'real ' interaction with expressions and gestures .
Communication would have taken a different turn without easily available social media .
However , it is good practice not to intesively use social media all the time .
Intimate interactions are greatly lacking in social media interactions , particularly touch .
Having to meet and interact allows one to be closer to the interlocutor .
It involves a level of dynamic interaction which utlises the motor , thinking and verbal cortex of the mind in collaboration .
When using social media , most of the interaction is done with thinking and typing .
As a result , one does not train the necessary skills required for a proper interpersonal relations .
It is also entirely incorrect to blame social media alone for the lack of interpersonal skills .
Howard Garner studied the effect of multiple intelligences amongst people and stated that interpersonal intelligence is a form of skill on its own - some have it , some do not .
Howard Garner mentioned that the different intelligences can be charted , using tests , and ranked .
Fundamentally , those who scored lower for interpersonal skills are more likely to struggle when this skill is needed .
Though social media need not necessarily be bad , it must be used accordingly - for work , family , friends .
The types of use must also be taken note of - informing , interacting , discussing amongst others .
The space of separation between the parties must also be looked at .
For people who are living very far from one another , the intensive use of social media is justified .
Those who live within a community should at least meet up and not use social media as the primary source of communication with each other .
And at the same time , improving interpersonal skills through dynamic practice between individuals in real-time .
The inclusion of intimate presence and relative touch could also bring a better rapport between those interacting .
Recently , the rise of social media has helped people to have closer connections with each other , it is a more convenient and cheaper way to have online contact compared with face-to-face meetings .
In my opinion , social media websites , such as Twitter and Facebook , will not affect the chance of people having face-to-face contact and thus negatively affect interpersonal skills .
On the other hand , it may even increase the chance of having face-to-face contact between people .
First , social media networks have a large user base which help to link people from different parts of the world .
In the days before the social networks , people may not have had the chance to get to know others from different countries or people they have never met before .
The number of people that they know may be limited to the people they meet in daily life , like classmates and work collegues .
Therefore , social networks make more and more connections between people and may give them the chance to chat to people they did not know before , and this helps to develop the interpersonal skills as well .
Secondly , although social networks take time for people to chat online but not face-to-face , they may still decide online to meet others face-to-face in real life .
In this case , the social network helps people to increase the frequency of communication .
For example , if social network did not exist , business people would need to meet each other face-to-face which is time consuming . Sometimes , for a business that is not so important , however it still takes a lot time to travel which is a wasted .
However , social networks help people to meet and chat much more easily , they can even use video chat and create group chats to chat to multiple parties at the same time .
Nowadays , some companies even conduct online video interviews with their applicants as it saves time and cost .
The social network may also have some negative consequences for people .
The largest negative consequence is that , due to the online network , some people start to use and rely on the internet all the time .
They spend too much time using online social networks and thus do not have time to have contact with people in their real life .
It not only affects the interpersonal skills but is also bad for people 's health if they spend too much time on social media .
Secondly , social networks may leak certain personal information to the public . The cyber environment is not perfect and not safe and people may not protect their privacy online effectively and sometimes , some people may use others ' personal information fraudulently .
In conclusion , other than the unsafe online environment , spending too much time on the internet may be the potentially negative consequence of using online social networks .
It provides people with a more convenient communication environment and improves the frequency of meeting with each other .
It also helps people to develop their interpersonal skills through online chating .
Overall , there are more benefits than disadvantages .
The world is becoming smaller due to all kinds of social network websites such as Facebook and Twitter .
We can even know what a friend who lives thousands of miles away ate for lunch though these kinds of social media .
From some points of view , social media really have a lot of advantages by letting us communicate with friends more cheaply and more conveniently .
However , its disadvantages also can not be ignored when you consider it as a platform to show off and a stage for cyber crime .
Social network sites provide us with many conveniences .
Without hanging out with friends or talking with friends on the , we can know his or her latest news by scanning the webpage .
It can help us know more about each other .
It can make people become closer as well .
For example , if you find out one of your friends ' favourite singers is Justin Biber through Facebook , you can give him or her Justin Biber 's new album or concert ticket as a birthday gift .
It will be really sweet and you two will surely become closer .
In addition , social network sites can help you keep in touch with friends living very far away .
I met some Canadian friends in Egypt .
Without Facebook , we may have lost contact .
However , thanks to Facebook , I can still keep in touch with them and I know what they are doing recently as we live close to each other .
The disadvantages of social network media are undeniable .
Research shows that people will unconsciously hide his or her real thoughts when he or she say posts something that will be available to the public .
It means that one can not know another 's real thoughts and personality by reading things that he or she puts on social network media .
It will make him or her quite upset when they communicate in real life .
In addition , with all these " nice " guys on the social network website , one may neglect people surrounding him or her and just communicate with friends on Facebook .
It is a common scene to see two people sitting next to each other hardly talking to each other but just looking at their cellphone .
This kind of behaviour is not good for people 's psychological health according to research .
cyber communication is quite different from face-to-face communication and people who depend on cyber communication too much will not get used to real life communication .
In addition , cyber relationships can not always work in real life .
With no close relationship in real life but only close cyber friends , one is more likely to feel lonely because the physiological need of human beings is to feel the bond with others with our five senses .
As people want to become the best among others , social network sites have now become a place to show off .
Some people will post their expensive thing or the overseas places they have been on the social network and get a feeling of satisfaction by doing so .
It is mentally unhealthy and it may trigger people , especially teenagers , to become materialistic .
Last but not the least , with all kinds of personal information on one 's social network page , it is covenient for criminals to make use of this information to commit crime .
Above all , social networking is like a two sided knife and people can only take advantage of it by avoiding the possible disadvantages such as by putting less personal information on his or her facebook page .
Modes of communication have been changing over the years , from letter writing to social networking .
This phenomenon is caused by rapidly changing technology , which has made communication faster than ever before .
Today , social media sites , such as Facebook and Twitter , are relatively common in contemporary society and people can communicate with each other , online or offline , on these social networking platforms .
They can even make new friends over similar interests on these platforms , which can connect almost everyone in many parts of the world .
However , critics may argue that the existence of social media sites has reduced physical human interactions among people as they prefer sitting in front of a computer to going out and meeting new friends .
This essay will discuss both the benefits and down sides of using social media in contemporary society .
Nowadays , social media are able to disseminate information faster than any other media .
About 50 % of people learn about breaking news from social media .
This is due to people spending comparatively more time on social networking than time reading newpapers .
Furthermore , with the current technology , smartphones are able to access social media sites which has made it easier for consumers to use .
Hence , social media has benefited the masses by equipping them with a powerful tool to disseminate information almost immediately to the people around them .
However , critics may argue that not all information or news that is disseminated is reliable .
There might be false information or hoaxes spreading on social media .
For example , in 2012 , there were false rumors of fires , shootouts , and caravans of gunmen in a Mexico City suburb which had spread through Twitter and Facebook .
This caused panic among the people who flooded the local police department with numerous phone calls , and this resulted in temporarily closed schools .
The spreading of false information can be a potential psychological threat to everyone , given that social media can disseminate information at a realtively fast speed .
Nevertheless , there are cyber police who patrol these social networking platforms to prevent these hoaxes spreading around .
However , there will still be unreliable sources spreading false information on social media sites despite high security to control almost every social networking movement .
Social media are able to improve relationships and form new friends , provided that there is mutual trust and mutual understanding between both parties .
Many teenagers today claim that they are able to keep in touch with their friends through social media , regardless of their location .
In the past , people used to write letters to their friends and it would take a relatively long time to send the letter over .
Therefore , with the help of technology , people are able to catch up wth each other conveniently .
Furthermore , it will be easier to make new friends by finding those who have simliar interests or hobbies .
However , in order for people to maintain their relationships as well as making new friends , it requires mutual trust and understanding between both parties .
It might not be accurate to judge the other party 's feelings over social media as one may hide their emotions while on social media .
In addition , there are also chances for people to miscommunicate with each other as they can not sense the tone of the other party over social media platforms .
This could result in unnecessary conflicts between two parties over miscommunication .
But , if there is trust and mutual understanding on social media , it will be ideal for people to improve relationships and make new friends .
In conclusion , social media in contemporary society is able to help people improve relationships and make new friends as well as disseminating information efficiently to the masses .
However , there are risks of false information and chances of miscommunication .
Nevertheless , the advantages of social media will benefit the masses if the negative aspects of it can be carefully taken care of .
All-in-all , social media is the product of rapid technological advancement and there will be more to come in future .
Advantages : Social media sites have greatly helped long distance communication and interaction due to its accessibility and convenience .
With a globalised and interconnected world today , Twitter and Facebook are now the mainstream platforms for social interaction .
With just a touch on any media/electronic devices , one can easily interact and communicate with friends without much hassle .
Thus , long distance relationships or friendships can be maintained and keeping in touch with your circle of friends has been made much easier .
With the sharing of personal photos , the posting of statuses of one 's personal feelings or experiences and being able to reply to these posts allows human interaction to be engaged and expanded with ease .
Introverts or those who are shy in communicating with their friends are now able to do so in the form of words via social media platforms .
Thus , socialisation can occur seamlessly and effectively with the utilisation of these social media platforms.Meet-ups and appointments are no longer a barrier for humans to contact and communicate with one another , making human interaction possible at one 's own convenience .
The society will adapt to such phenomenon as physical interaction is transformed into cyber interaction .
With frequent use and reliance on social media and the Internet , a society that socialises through cyberspace will be more advanced and adapted to the highly connected world .
This will greatly help the society to progress rapidly .
Disadvantages : One of the main concerns of using social media platforms to communicate is credibility .
The certainty of what is being shared or expressed can not be proven physically , as media limits physical interaction , except when using a webcam to chat .
We can not be certain of the reliabilty or truth of some posts or information we receive through the Inetrnet .
We may in actual fact be communicating with the hoax Facebook acccount of a cyber friend , which we assume to be real , but in reality is a fake account .
Photos and information retrieved from their profile page may be fabricated to suit a certain personal agenda .
Thus , the lack of face-to-face human contact through social media restricts actual interaction which can be stimulated through the media .
Although emoticons can be used to show certain emotions , this differs from the authentic emotions of your friends when you observe them through their body language and their facial expression .
The danger of this media socialisation is the uncertainty of such communication due to the lack of physical interaction .
Furthermore , this lack of physical interaction has affected human inter-personal behaviour , since communication is made through social media instead of meet-ups .
This lowers people 's ability to interact with one another which can adversely shape their behaviour .
The lack of exposure to real life interaction with humans will not foster the confidence and skills needed for one to interact seamlessly and effectively with others .
Therefore , for an effective and efficient society , there is a need to have a balance of both social media interaction and face-to-face human interaction for its people .
Nowadays , people can use their phone to read news and everyone can be the first to witness what is happening in the world .
People use Twitter to follow the artist or celebrity they love and Facebook to their friends ' recent activity .
Nevertheless , they can still use the phone to make normal calls and send messages to contact people .
Not only does the phone do the job for them , but also devices like personal computers , laptops , tablets , and many other devices which are able to connect to the internet .
It is obvious to see that the internet saves people time and also connects people globally .
Several arguments have been made regarding the fact that social media actually has some inevitable disadvantages for people .
People can only use electical devices to access the internet .
Whenever they need to use social media , they have to use a phone or the internet .
Generally people need their eyes to look at the display screen of their phone or computer and fingers to manipulate the corresponding device .
As a result , they will lose the ability to make eye-contact with , and their hands to express their feelings for , people nearby them , which means they have lost the tools they need for face-to-face communication .
This can easily be seen in restaurants or cafes nowadays .
Families having dinner in a restaurant without chatting , because they are holding and looking at their display screen with one hand when the other hand is holding a fork .
A group of friends having high tea in a caf  without chatting as well , because they do not know what to talk about but pressing on their display screen .
The children nowadays do not know what neighbourhood games are and who lives nearby them , all they know is pressing icons on the screens .
These are some concrete examples of how the socia media reduce face-to-face human contact .
When people get used to using socia media to contact other people , what will happen is that their interpersonal communicating skills will degrade and eventually be lost .
Firstly , they will have lost the courage to meet strangers and even the courage to talk .
Also , they will not have enough experience to communicate with people face-to-face and will not be trained in their conversation skills .
As a result , social media helps them do the job but indirectly affects their interpersonal skills .
Social media does have some other advantages beside the general benefits to human beings .
First of all , people save money by using the internet to contact other people and read news .
A father may be able to make a call to his daughter who is in other country via social media software instead of making an international call which costs a lot to the average family .
He can even talk to his daughter face-to-face using video call via the internet .
Secondly , people make friends all over the world and are able to update their friends on their recent activity easily .
Someone who is going travelling for months can easily tell all of his friends about his activities .
When one of his friends who is not aware of this has failed to contact him via telephone calls , he might be able to discover his whereabout using social media .
These are the advantages that save on work most of the time .
In conclusion , social media benefit people in several ways but at the same time can harm people .
People should avoid the misuse of social media and use it in the correct way .
With the aid of social media , people bond globally , information flows rapidly , and humans live happily .
All of us are living in the technological realm of society .
Have you ever wondered why we use these tools to connect with other people ?
It started with the invention of technologies which have evolved tremendously over the past few decades .
In the past , we travelled by ship and now we can use an airplane to do so .
In the past , it took a few days to receive a message as we needed to post our letter and now we can use e-mail , which stands for electronic message to send messages to our friends or even use our mobile phone to send our messages .
From the example that I mentioned earlier we can see that the distance between us and our loved ones is becoming greater .
This is because , due to the ease of technology such as airplanes , some of our friends might be going overseas to continue their studies or even you yourself are going away from your family to pursue your studies or career in life .
Thus , this makes Twitter and Facebook one of the mediums that we need .
Nevertheless,everything in life has positive and negative effects .
This is applicable to these social media sites .
The next two paragraphs will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our society .
With the help of social media tools , we can stay in contact and keep ourselves up to date with our family and friends even though we are away from them .
Social media sites , such as Facebook , allow us to share our pictures or even chat online with our parents while we are overseas .
This helps the parents to communicate with their children and to know what kind of activities their children are doing when they are overseas .
Social media is beneficial as it connects you and your loved ones even though you are separated by distance .
It might not be able to replace the joy that you feel when you are with your family but it could help to reduce the sadness of being away from your family .
As I mentioned at the beginning , there are also disadvantages to social media tools .
One of them is that it reduces the level of concentration , especially among young people .
This is because it is part of everyone 's routine to check their Facebook page as their friends will post something new every second .
Thus , you can see that some students will browse Facebook while attending lectures .
This means that the students are not concetrating when they are supposed to do so .
As a result , it could affect their lives and studies .
This could then lead to stress as these students are not able to cope with their studies because they were distracted .
In my opinion , every individual has to take responsibility for their own lives by making the right decision .
There are advantages and disadvantages to using social media sites , however , in this case , striking a balance between social media and real life is the most important thing to do .
Nowadays , the use of the social media platforms is commonplace in our lives .
In an increasingly globalised world , such platforms enhance and complicate the links between indivduals in the world .
Thanks to them , people can get to know one another online , without having to travel to meet up for business purposes or personal reasons .
However , it is also bringing about some social changes whereby virtual worlds are overtaking the real-life world , resulting in some negative impacts on individuaul 's daily lives and therefore becoming a large problem in societies as a whole .
As people spend more and more time on such social media sites , the importance of face-to-face human contact has decresed .
As people feel more confident online , where they do not have to face real-life on the spot , they feel more comfortable and thus prefer communicating online .
This results in a lack of interpersonal skills in individuals , especially young students , as they always have the option to turn their back on the real-life and go online .
This becomes a huge problem when they have no choice but to have to face things in real life .
As they are so used to having an online avatar , they may lose their self-identity in real life and may not realise how to interact with people in real life .
Another problem with social media is that , the benefits of investing so much time and energy is not reflected in something positive for the users .
The reason why it is so addictive is that the more people get into the social media , the more they seek attention from their friends .
However , such sparks of sudden attention are extremely short-lived and disappear eaily which does not add any value or meaning to the user 's life .
Also , according to research , it has been proven that users feel more sad after using Facebook and this is because users subconsciously compare their lives with other people 's lives .
However , most people only post the happiest moments in their lives .
Social media definitely has some other benefits that make the users stay in the link with people .
Indeed , I myself use Facebook just because of friendships that I want to keep .
However , friendship in such a virtual world are so superficial which is not so relevant to real life .
Also , as numerous profit-driven companies recognise the high human traffic on such social media sites , they make it a pond from which to fish for customers by uploading many advertisements .
Furthermore this also triggers possible privacy issues as Facebook allows some other profit-driven companies to have access to the information of the users .
As this happens , users are more and more prone to any possible fraud .
Social media sites are at their peak at the moment , however , I believe that when people realize that such sites are not making them better people in real life , they will not indulge in it as much as they do now .
The users will soon realise that they do not need such social media sites to keep in contact with the their friends because , if they really need somebody , they will reach them no matter what .
We think we are all connected through all sorts of social media , but do we really get connected or are we falling apart ?
Social media sites , like Facebook and Twitter , were created with the intention of connecting people around the world .
The idea seems great , and nowadays most people , even the older generation , will use at least one social media platform like Facebook .
Parents are now " friends " with their children , and they can now " follow " their children more closely and in real time .
People post their random thoughts or daily activities on Twitter and post different kinds of photos on Facebook to be connected with their so called friends .
However , we then tend to spend too much time on this and have significantly reduced face-to-face human contact , which eventually affects our interpersonal skills .
First and foremost , I would like to reflect on the advantages of using social media in my daily life .
As a student , I tend to meet many people from different backgrounds and in different settings .
We may meet only once but we exchange our contact numbers , as well as Facebook accounts , in order to keep in touch .
Unlike just keeping contact numbers that we may not even call , social media like Facebook is a great way for friends from different fields , or even from different parts of the world , to be connected .
Within a few clicks , we can check on the friend 's profile and read his/her updates .
On the other hand , we could update our profile by posting on the wall and our friends could read it on their newsfeed .
This allows friends , who may not have the time for meet up , to still be connected in a way .
Not only that , but new friends can be made easily through such online platforms .
Hence , our social circle is indeed expanding .
Nonetheless , what seems to make us connected can be the cause of us falling apart .
The obvious disadvantage of using social media is the time reduction in face-to-face contact .
This subsequently leads to the poor interpersonal skills that inhibit the growth of our real social circle .
For example , we tend to send birthday wishes when Facebook promts us with " Today is someone 's birthday " .
In fact , we may have forgotten our friend 's birthday .
We used to send greetings cards during festive seasons , like Chinese New Year , and we liked to write them and , of course , to receive one with stamps on it .
Gone are those times , and now we send mass messages and the receiver may feel less meaning in such online wishes .
As time passes , we may have more " friends " on the list , but the meaning of friends needs to be redefined .
In a nutshell , every sword has two edges .
The users of social media sites need to strike a balance between the real world and the virtual one .
We should maximize the benefits of such platforms but be careful of its impacts on the life that we have .
Ultimately , the best way to enhance interpersonal skills is still through face-to-face meetings and social media sites are only the tools to enhance it .
Nowadays , social media sites are commonly used in society .
I believe 80 percent of people use social media sites .
These sites play the role of connecting people around the world .
They consist of the functions of connecting , sharing , interacting and advertising .
However , there are also some disadvantages to social media .
Therefore , this article will explain the pros and cons of using social media in our daily life .
First , because social media sites connect people , everyone is able to interact and communicate with friends and family , or even strangers without any time or place constraints .
Through the social media sites , we can chat with our friends who live in Europe and New Zealand .
There are over a thousands miles between Singapore and these two countries .
However , we are able to chat with our friends without traveling to the countries .
It saves a lot of money and time as well as strengthening our relationships although we live in different places around the world .
Besides that , companies can use the convenience of social media sites , such as Facebook chat or Skype , to facilitate meetings with parties of a project from around the world .
Substantial costs are saved without tiring travel from one point to another point .
With the huge amount of financial savings , this capital can be utilized in other sectors which benefit the company more and boost the company 's profits .
However , there are two sides to every story .
Some scholars argue that the use of social media reduces the face-to-face connection between humans .
Since ancient times , humans have interacted with others face-to-face .
Without facial expressions , it is easier to misunderstand the intention of speakers .
That is why facial expressions are one of the most important elements in social learning .
In addition , " social media sites will affect writing skills " , that is the point of view of society .
Based on statistics , writing skills will be reduced the more time spent on social media sites .
I believe most of us have the experience of suddenly forgetting how to write a word that we should know .
The auto correction software is so effective when using electronic device that we do not realize the importance of writing .
Writing is an essential skill for people to express their own feelings and opinions .
'Privacy ' , this is a word that has become popular in these few decades .
Humans have their own rights and privacy .
I believe that most of us agree with these terms .
However , there has been news that the social media sites leak users ' information to companies for cash .
Everything we type into the social media sites is recorded in the server and then transferred to the companies for spying and advertising .
Although it looks like there are no laws and it is your own space to say and do anything you want , you are actually wrong .
You are not only controlled by the government 's laws but also spied on by the government .
In conclusion , everything has two sides .
It is our responsibility to identify the advantages and disadvantages of social media sites .
To utilize the technology well , we should do our best to not only balance the pros and cons but also increase the pros and reduce the cons .
Thus , the new technology will lead to a prosperous future for us and the next generation .
With the wide advancement of technology , social media sites are becoming more and more popular .
Getting connected on social media , such as Facebook and Twitter , has become a big trend as well as daily work nowadays .
With this situation , both advantages and disadvantages of using social media apply to our daily life .
On one side , it is obvious that many advantages have been brought to our lives .
Social media provides people with the opportunity to contact with each other anytime and anywhere .
Whether we are at home or at school , at work or on a holiday , we are able to communicate and interact with our friends .
Even when people are thousands of miles apart , social media make it possible to interact by writing comments .
When our phones are not working , we can also use social media to make contact with our friends .
Some people who are can also actively take part in group chatting via social media .
Besides , we can make more friends in such interactions when our friends also involve their friends .
Therefore , the popularity of social media sites has made it more convenient for people to update friends ' status and contact friends more frequently .
On the other side , we need to rethink the influence social media has .
There are many disadvantages of using social media .
Firstly , interpersonal skills may be affacted by the reduction in face-to-face human contact .
While social media brings convenience to people 's lives , people are more and more willing to use social media for chatting instead of face-to-face chatting which has a time and place requirement .
People who are not good at public speaking may be more reluctant to talk to people , and their interpersonal skills can never be improved in this situation .
Secondly , people 's addiction to social media may , to some degree , exacerbate social alienation , and this kind of alienation could cause some social media users to suffer from over-dependence on virtual social networking .
More and more networking has been transferred to the internet from real life .
There is a potential danger for teenagers who are growing up with social changes to get hurt .
.
Lastly , it is easy for people to waste a lot of time using social media .
Again , there is a trend for them to suffer from social media addiction and their study and work may be greatly affected .
Since we can see both advantages and disadvantages of using social media , and we can not deny the many benefits that have been brought to us , the trend of using social media will last for a long time .
Therefore , everytime we use social media , we should take both sides into consideration and try to avoid being affected by the disadvantages .
Only by exploiting the positives and discarding the negatives can we make better use of social media .
In this sophisticated era , experts keep producing inventions that are meant to make life easier .
Geographical and transportation borders are not a problem anymore because communication and information technologies have enhanced continuously .
The telephone may have been perceived as the biggest innovation ever the first time Graham Bell introduced it .
However , since the internet was invented , the telephone started to give way to social media sites .
Many advantages are given to the users .
Let us take the example of Facebook and Twitter , two of the most famous social media sites .
Through Facebook , peope are able to maintain relationships with their old acquaintances .
This benefit can not be obtained by telephone or mail because people 's number and address may change from time to time while on Facebook , people can keep in contact with old friends just by using their and photo , for example , as the identifier .
Facebook is a combination of a messaging and chatting service , a personal profile , , and other entertainment additions ( i.e .
social games ) which allow users to communicate with remote people , and also to update and express themselves at the same time .
Twitter , that has a more simple function compared to Facebook , giving more benefits if used as an information sharing media .
Twitter only allows users to write an update that is limited to short sentences in order to spread the word quickly , and only highlighted messages are delivered .
For Facebook , a comprehensive way of sharing is offered since multiple photos and videos can be uploaded , long notes can be published , and documents and data can be shared .
These advantages also come in handy as most of these social media sites are accessible through mobile applications in our smartphones .
Despite the luxury that is offered by social media , there are also harmful side effects which people may not realize beforehand .
Researches show that the face-to-face meeting frequency among people that are addicted to social media sites has been decreasing .
As the consequently affects their interpersonal skills .
People can think while typing and prepare what they want to say but in face-to-face communication every word that comes out of your mouth , which may be not well arranged , creates a picture of your personality .
This skill requires practice and can not be done completely through social media .
There is a situation where a family is having dinner together in a restaurant but everybody is busy with their own gadget , posting a picture on Facebook , updating their status on Twitter , or even chatting with friends .
social media serves a purpose on connecting people in spite of their geographical boundaries but it means that the surrounding people are neglected .
This is related to the interpersonal skills that were mentioned before , which can be decreasing qualitatively if we are used to facing gadgets , rather than facing human beings .
Another disadvantage that affects other people is that , by only showing selected parts of our lives , we build a " false image " in public .
We tend to only share our happy moments in the media .
Because of this , other people start to think that our lives are full of happiness with no problems at all .
Other people are influenced by us and tend to do the same .
As a result , people may think less of themselves and may lead to depression and mental disorder .
It also reduces our sympathy .
This is a serious social problem and affects a lot of people .
As explained above , modern and sophisticated technology does n't always provide advantages .
There are a lot of disadvantages that people may not have realized .
It is up to people 's discretion and comprehension to decide which side they want to take .
So , we should never forget to think of and calculate the benefits and disadvantages of every decision that we make .
Nowadays , the advancement of technology improves the lives of many people greatly .
In most countries , there is an emergence of social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter .
Many people think that the social media sites have benefits for communication between people while others argue that there are several negative aspects for the society .
One of the advantages of these social media sites is that they can connect us more closely than before .
In past decades , when the social media sites were not yet fully developed , people connected with others who lived far away by using a phone or even a letter .
However , calling a person on the phone and writing a person a letter costs money , and sending a letter to a person who lives far away , especially in villages , takes a long time .
The appearance of social media sites solves these problems .
People connecting through the social media sites can spend no money on the communication , and also it takes only a few seconds for the message to be received .
Therefore , an advantage of social media sites is saving money and time , and also being convenient for many people .
Moreover , it also provides an alternative way for people to contact a person whom they have not seen for a very long time , such as their friends from primary school and secondary school .
When we graduate from a school , we will probably lose contact with some of our friends .
Some of them may have changed their phone numbers and addresses , and we are not able to find them by phone or letter .
If phone and letter are the only way to contact them , we would probably not be able to find them .
Facebook and Twitter can serve as an alternative route to make connections between us and our old friends .
Hence , the social media sites serves as a platform for the connection .
Everything that comes with benefits will also have disadvantages .
On the other hand , social media sites also have some negative effects on the people and the society .
The prevalence of these social media sites makes people so reliant on them that some people prefer using the sites to contact each other rather than talking to each other face-to-face .
Many people argue that this is the most serious problem stemming from social media sites .
The use of social media sites indirectly causes a reduction in face-to-face human communication in real life , which will in turn cause the loss of interpersonal skills for many people .
As we all know , interpersonal skills are essential for us to communicate with each other and to present our views and ideas .
The loss of interpersonal skills results in the inability of people to present their ideas well .
As a result , they will gradually reduce their ability to compete with each other in the society .
In conclusion , social media sites have both positive and negative consequences for people and society .
As part of this modern society , we should learn to distinguish between good and bad impacts brought by the advancement of technologies , and also learn to avoid the cons and maximize the benefits of those sites .
With the advancement of technology in recent years , the need to keep in touch with people and the latest news has become tremendous .
Some of the famous examples are social media sites like Twitter and Facebook .
With more than a billion users from all over the world , social media sites have demonstrated clearly their success in playing an important part in our lives .
However , there are arguments that social media life causes a reduction in face-to-face human contact , which in turn affects interpersonal skills .
Let 's examine the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily life and society .
First and foremost , all social media sites are free .
All users need is an internet connection and an email account so that everyone can have a Facebook or Twitter ID to start their journey in social media life .
Secondly , it helps people to keep in-touch with one another .
Finding old friends through Facebook , for example , is easier than asking around in real life .
Social media helps to reduce the hassle of geographical distance and brings people closer .
Thirdly , social media sites keep us up-to-date on the latest news and updates from almost everywhere in the world , all with just a click on the refresh button .
Last but not least , social media sites also link people together by allowing us to create our own groups , pages or sites to share our hobbies , interests and studies in particular subjects .
Hence , it is undeniable that these sites play an important role in our global inter-connected world .
However , social media sites also have a negative impact on people .
Undeniably , it becomes more addictive when we spend more time socialising and interacting virtually .
We spend the majority of our time on sites like Facebook and Twitter and it affects our daily work productivity and performance .
In the corporate world , employers often block social media networks to prevent employees spending their office time on their personal leisure rather than concentrating on their work .
Using text-messaging language as an informal way of communicating on social media networks also has a negative impact on us in a the long term .
The more time we spend on these sites , the less time we spend on face-to-face interacting with one another .
Hence it reduces valuable interaction between people and the time we spend away from the computer screen or mobile phone .
In addition , there are also some false reports and fake IDs on both social media sites that people use to insult or harass someone , like the case of Heather Chua which occurred recently on Facebook .
These malicious comments often go viral and it has a strong negative effect on the user in real life , which might lead to an unwillingness to interact with others in real life by the victim .
In conclusion , everything has positive and negative effects and it depends on how we exploit it .
With the current boom in technology , it is understandable that people become more technologysavvy and that they want to spend more time interacting with each other through social media sites . however , it does not mean that we should neglect face-to-face human interaction as it plays an even more important role in our life .
With more and more social websites such as Twitter , Facebook and Weibo , which have become ubiquitous , seamless and imperative in our lives , people may worry about the younger generation having problems with face-to-face communication skills .
However , I believe that the benefits of these online chatrooms tremendously outweigh their negative repercussions .
Social media enable us to explore the world far far away without paying for expensive airplane tickets and sparing a one-week holiday .
The convenience is beyond description .
With a small smart phone or a computer at school , at work or at home , we can easily make friends worldwide with a 'click ' and learn about their life through having conversations with them , reading their blogs , photos and statuses .
Compared to face-to-face interaction , online conversation is easier for strangers to open up to each other .
Since some of the information has already been revealed on the home page , it is also easier to find some common topics to talk about .
Moreover , people usually like to share their real feelings online with their masks in reality being taken off .
This has been indicated in a report by Boston University in 2012 . 80 % of information posted online is true , while a person may 3 out of 10 times in real life .
This shows that a Facebook friend may know more about you than your close friend who does not have a Facebook account .
That is because we are behaving as we are in reality while we have no reason to do that in the online virtual world .
Although sometimes it may be inappropriate or even harmful , such as using vulgarity and harsh comments , we can minimize these repercussions through strict regulation of content online .
Another advantage of social media is in aiding the spread of democracy .
People around the world can easily share their thoughts about their governments .
This eliminates the incomplete information disadvantage for some remote rural regions where people are less aware of what is actually happening around them .
One of the examples is the 2012 riots which happened in Egypt and Zambia .
The idea of searching for democracy was passed from the Egyptians to people in Zambia quickly through the use of social media .
However , as the government controls most of the media
social media may be a tool of their campaign and manipulation of the thoughts of the public .
For example , in the 2012 general election is Singapore , Dr Tan Chee Keong made use of Facebook to spread his campaign videos to the public .
because of this , social media is still a much fairer and more transparent online platform for the public to share ideas compared to other traditional medias .
Intensive use of social media reduces the time people spend in face-to-face communication .
It is common to see , in a food court or restaurant , a group of people sitting together around a table with each of them having a cell phone in their hands .
They are too busy with their virtual friends and some of them neglect the feelings of their real-life friends .
In this case , I have to say that to err is human .
What we can do is to educate the public about the importance of the friends by their side and teach them to manage their time well .
In conclusion , the use of social media has more advantages than disadvantages in our daily lifes .
What we can do is to cautiously manage our time spent online and manage our words used online .
With the regulation of government and relevant authorities , the virtual world would be a better world .
Social media sites ' role in connecting people around the world is undeniable .
Thanks to social media , communication between people all over the world is possible and can be done with ease .
Apart from the ease of communication despite the distance , many other advantages such as knowledge sharing and trading can be done through social media as well .
Nevertheless , despite these advantages , some disadvantages may appear such as a reduction in face-to-face human contact which affects interpersonal skills , privacy issues , as well as fraud that can be done through social media .
Twitter , Facebook and Skype are some social media sites which enable us to keep in touch with our friends or family who are in other cities or countries .
Through these sites we are able to talk to them , to find out about their activities and who their friends are , etc. On the surface there is no doubt that these sites help us to have a better relationship with our relatives despite the distance .
The sharing of information can be done faster through social media as well , that is why nowadays many news publishers make their own social media accounts , for example Channel News Asia has a Twitter account and updates its followers with headline news .
This shows how news and information can be shared easily through social media .
Furthermore , since many teenagers and young adults are fans of social media , information can reach them easily without the need to watch or listen to news reports .
Due to the popularity of social media , many people are starting to do their business via these sites .
More and more advertisements can be found on Facebook , whether it is our friends selling their products or professional brands selling their products online , we can buy and contact the sellers through the sites , which can be considered an advantage for us , the buyers .
However , is it the same when we keep in touch with someone virtually compared to when we meet them in person ?
I do think there is difference and I believe many people will agree .
When we write or communicate virtually , we can hide our true feelings and may not be ourselves since we do not want the other party to judge us .
Other than that , sometimes the message of one party can not be delivered properly to the other one since the communication is done through written language , and thus the 'tone ' of the message when it is received may be different .
Many people are very brave in telling people about their opinions online but in real life some of them can be very shy and not outspoken at all .
This will lead to bad inter-personal skills as well as issues of trust .
Nowadays we can not really trust new people who we know from social media since we will never know whether they are even 'real' .
Some people fake their identities on social media sites so that they can know more people or some may even deceive others .
In addition , privacy issues have become more popular nowadays since some people do not realize that they may actually share some information that they are not willing to share in the first place .
Therefore , while social media sites are undoubtedly beneficial to our lives , we should consider their drawbacks and thus use it wisely so that we can gain more of their benefits and it disadvantages us in the smallest way possible .
It is a common scene that almost everyone on public transport is watching their phone or wearing a pair of headphones in this modern society .
Not only one but many developed and developing countries have the same situation .
Some say that it is a necessary step for human evolution .
Social media sites like Twitter and Facebook are popular with people in order for them to connect to others , even those from different countries .
It also has many negative effects such as a loss of face-to-face communication skills which is important in their work place .
This essay will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily lives .
One of the significant advantages of using a popular social media site is that people can reach other easily , even without having had contact for a long time .
In this fast paced and competitive world , people may not able to keep in touch with others .
With the help of social media sites , people are able to upload their new discoveries and funny videos on it and they can be updated on new information about their friends .
Personally I am studying overseas and a busy study life keeps me away from contacting my old friends .
Using a common social media site with my friends helps me know what their statuses are nowadays .
Also , I am able to easily find a common topic when I contact them .
In Singapore , many Malaysians cross the sea to work here .
Many of them are busy in work and separate from their children .
One of the managers at my workplace is in the same situation .
After my Manager taught her mother how to use Facebook she was able to upload video clips of her grandchild .
Therefore my Manager would not miss the key moments of her daughter 's growth .
Social media sites are also a very useful tool for people to start a new friendship or relationship .
People get connected or become closer to people with same preferences .
It is easier for people to approach the other after knowing the information .
Students can exchange their experiences even if they are in different countries .
People are able to share the culture or pretty photos online , therefore others can spread the joy with them .
Thus I believe that social media sites are a useful tool to help people get to know each other better .
However , social media sites are a double-edged sword , it also has some negative effects on our daily lives .
One of the disadvantages that concern many people is that people loose interest in face-to-face communication .
Many people like to use language to , and loose confidence when they talk to each other .
Although not everyone is good at public relationships even without the existence of the social media sites , we can not deny that it does affect some people 's interpersonal skills .
In conclusion , the shadow always exists when there is light .
We should take the advantages of the creatures we create and try to avoid the negative effects .
Social media sites should be very useful and convenient tools to use and should bring people closer in this globalised world .
The use of social media has greatly influenced our ways of communicating with one another .
Online friends became real life friends and real life friends communicate with one another online .
Social media has changed our ways of exchanging information and interpersonal relationships profoundly .
There are advantages and disadvantages to this change .
Social media has reshaped forms of communication .
In real life , we communicate with one another as equal participants .
We share ideas , stories and forge friendships based on mutual respect .
However , communication on social media is largely based on " broadcasting and listening " .
When we use Facebook and post pictures and statuses
we are actively " presenting " fa  ades of our lives in front of others .
We tend to post pictures with the best looks and statuses that are funny .
We broadcast these facades of us to others .
The images we choose to present are tentatively considered .
The audience is not some specific person , but everyone we might know , or even the entire world .
There is an element of attention seeking rather than expressing one 's true opinion on social networks .
On the other hand , the viewers are not the listeners .
They are just scrolling down pages and pages of pictures and statuses and seeing one of them which they might think funny .
It is not the broadcasters themselves they care about , but the content .
This type of communication does not help to forge interpersonal relationships .
In real life , establishing friendship requires understanding in one another and caring for one another .
The latter requires face-to-face interaction where we can show our emotions to others .
One can not truly understand a person by only stalking his/her Facebook page where he/she carefully chooses what to present .
One can not truly show one 's emotions to another by texting some emoticons .
The broadcasting and viewing model is not good for forging relationships .
However , it is good for sharing information .
On social media , everyone is a broadcaster and a viewer .
With my social network account , I seldom read newspapers or go to news websites anymore ; because I can easily read them from the statuses of my friends .
If I am interested in politics , I can just follow some political newspapers or public figures .
I get news of sales , clothes and cosmetics from my friends .
If some of my friends have horrible taste in clothes , and they post them often , I can simply block him/her off .
Information is circulated .
The most popular information is circulated the most so I seldom miss it .
Social networks play a role in providing and also filtering information .
This saves a lot of time for me in reading newspapers and watching TV .
Personally I feel more at ease on social media .
From the above two points of view I think social media could forge more interest-based friendships .
With the help of social media , I have become real life friends with those from online forums with whom I share the same interests .
I also discover some of my friends ' interests which I share so that talking to one another is much more about life , study , friends , etc .
The communication does not focus on how we feel , but on whatever is interesting , or the content .
In this case , interpersonal skills are not as important because our goal is not to impress somebody , but to get the information that we are both interested in .
In conclusion , I think social media has reshaped interpersonal relationships from a more human-based friendship that requires sharing and caring between friends , to a more information-based friendship that requires a mutual interest .
There are advantages and disadvantages to this , however , whether it is good or bad is unclear .
It is just different .
Advantages and disadvantages of using social media in daily life
People living in the modern world really can not live without social media sites like Twitter and Facebook .
Almost all students and young adults possess a Facebook or Twitter account .
It is true that social media makes people able to connect to one another more conveniently .
However , it seems that , especially for some , sharing some parts of their lives such as videos and photos on the social media sites has become really necessary .
An extremely interesting and ironic phenomenon has been discovered : that a group of friends met and sat around a table , but none of them were really chatting with one another .
Instead , all of them were more interested in posting pictures of this " cheerful " meeting on their social media sites .
Therefore , there is a need to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of social media .
Social media enables people from different parts of the world to communicate with one another .
People used to write letters and send post cards to keep in touch with people living far away from them in the past .
It could take a few days or weeks for them to receive the messages .
Nowadays , all people need to do is type in front of the computer in their own rooms .
And the people on the other side will only need to wait a second to receive the message .
Distance and time are no longer problems , which is convenient especially when instant communication is needed .
However , when people become more and more addicted to this convenience and fail to communicate with people who are close to them , their face-to-face interpersonal skills are lost .
Social media provides people with a way of talking and chatting which can never be considered a form of communication .
When people chat on social media sites , there is no eye contact , no emotional connection and even expressions are typed in by using some combinations of punctuation .
For more convenience , sentences are shortened to simply three or four words such as 'lol ' ( which means 'laugh out loud ' ) and " asap " ( which means 'as soon as possible ' ) .
People go to great lengths to make their words as short as they can .
While , once they are communicating with people to their face , expressing themselves appropriately becomes a really big problem .
Social media also provides people with information about people and things that interest them .
For example , on Twitter , it is exciting to follow people that you adore like famous movie and series stars , business men and entrepreneurs .
It makes people feel extremely close to their admirers ' lives and works .
Up to date news that people care about can be easily obtained when you refresh your social media sites on your smart phones and laptops almost every time and at any time .
However , after one has registered with these social media sites , which are not reliable , all the information you have filled in will become a weapon to be used against you in the future .
Furthermore , not everyone on the social media sites are honest .
The profile picture may not be the person that the user says he or she really is .
The reason might be that he or she just wants to " decorate " his or her face .
But there is a possibility that the person on the other side is deceiving you in order to obtain your information to use against you .
Not having a pledge of authenticity risks people 's information and privacy that is shared on social media sites .
To sum up , social media has advantages and disadvantages in people 's daily lives .
It shortens the distance between people from all over the world and makes instant communication possible .
It also becomes more convenient to obtain and update information by using social media .
However , social media makes people lose their ability to communicate effectively in their real lives and makes people risk exposing their privacy to those whose identity can not be verified on the social media sites .
How do social media help change our lives ?
With the development of the technology , social media has a more and more significant role in the whole world .
Everyone in the world can not stop using it every day to express their feelings or ideas and as a log of other events which help their friends understand their lives better .
However , it also raises concerns about whether it has benefits for us or is a potential human disaster .
Although it helps to connect us with our friends wherever we are , it at the same time reduces the chance for us to talk to our friends face-to-face which may affect our interpersonal skills .
Thus , whether there are more advantages or disadvantages becomes a tough question for every human being .
Many people say they will support social media since it really helps them to have a closer relationship with their friends in other parts of the world .
This is especially true for people who are overseas .
To them , social media is the only resource they can use to know everything happening in their home country and the resource they can use to show their lives to their lovers as well .
What 's more , these days social media plays an important role in spreading information .
Nowadays , people can easily put their on their Facebook account and wait for the response from others who are from different parts of the world which brings us a huge amount of convenience .
It is quite significant , especially for young teenagers since they would rather go to these sites to see the news and know what is happening in this world than read the newspaper every day .
However , there are also a large number of people who are against this technology .
They worry a lot about the negative effects on teenagers who are still developing themselves .
They point out that social media reduces the chance for us to talk to people around us face-to-face .
The more we care about Facebook , the less time we will have to spend with our friends .
Nowadays , it is quite common to see at a party that people prefer looking at their phones and reading all the posts on Facebook if they feel bored .
It makes people worry since , if all the teenagers continue using social media frequently , they will reduce their ability to talk to people .
They will feel it becoming difficult for them to find any topics to communicate with other people .
Personally , I strongly agree that social media has more disadvantages compared to advantages for us .
Although it is really useful when we need to use it to let other people know we are living a good life , it wastes a lot of time as well .
Think of it another way , if we put the time we spend browsing those sites , we could finish a book or do other more meaningful things .
We should keep in mind that there are still ways for us to contact our family or friends .
Everything will be bad if we do n't know how to use them wisely no matter whether it is really good or not .
As a result , it is important for people to know that we need to be cautious about the time we spend on these social media .
As stated above , I strongly believe that if we can use social media wisely rather than abusing it , we will all live a better life .
The advantage and disadvantage of social media
Nowadays , as the technology is becoming increasingly advanced , more and more social media sites are showing up in our daily life .
You can see people using Facebook and Twitter through their smart phones or ipads on buses or on trains .
Some may say that the appearance of these modern media will reduce the chance of people communicating face-to-face .
This essay will illustrate the pros and cons of using social media in modern society .
First of all , social media can make it more convenient for people to make friends and contact each other .
Years ago , when these modern products were not popular , the way for people to communicate or contact people far way was restricted to making phone calls , sending emails or writing letters .
Some take a long time and some are not efficient enough for people to get their response .
However , social media solves these problems well .
People can contact their friends on the internet and get their reply very fast .
The communication is also not limited to words .
People can express themselves through pictures or emotions .
People can also get to know their friends ' state and mood by looking at their posts online .
Moreover , people can be aware of what is going on in social situations and see the comments online and share their opinions on these websites .
These social media make people 's lives much more colorful and provide a lot of fun .
However , social media may do some harm to people 's lives .
It will make people spend more time chatting on the internet rather than communicating face-to-face such that their interpersonal skills will be badly affected .
Some people spend a lot of time on it and forget their real life .
Actually , I have seen some people who are very funny and interesting when I am chatting with them online .
However , they are quite boring when I talk to them in real life .
Teenagers develop their interpersonal skills and social skills when they are growing up .
If they spend too much time on these social media , it may cause some problems in their mental development .
They may feel uncomfortable when they communicate with people face-to-face .
Some may spend less time with their family and not know how to express themselves .
Moreover , some on the websites will affect teenagers and confuse them .
Some may even do something wrong .
In conclusion , the appearance of social media sites is a double edged sword .
It can make our life simpler .
People can promote their friendships and relationships through these social media .
However , it can also make people forget to communicate with their family and friends in real life and negatively affect their interpersonal skills .
But overall , the advantages far outweigh the disadvantages .
we need to make best use of these social media and make it a fun way of adding some excitement when life is boring
and try to bypass the shortcomings by
remembering to send greetings to our friends and family frequently .
Nowadays , with the advancement of technology , it is easy to communicate wherever you are .
The appearance of social media sites truly connects people closely .
People can see their friends ' recent looks and the interesting things that happen to those people just by checking their Facebook or other social media sites .
We can not deny that the social media sites help old friends not lose contact and give them the chance to communicate with you even if you are in a different country .
However , the social media sites reduce face-to-face communication which truly affects interpersonal skills .
There are two advantages and two disadvantages to using social media in people 's daily life .
Firstly , the social media sites can connect people with their friends and parents closely .
By typing the words and showing the pictures , people can express emotions that they are too shy to express .
For example , on Mother 's Day , people are too shy to say " I love you " to their mothers so they can type it on his or her mother 's Facebook page .
Then his or her mother will also know the emotion and feel warm .
On the other hand , when a teenager is studying in a foreign country , the internet is the only way that he can communicate with his parents and friends .
Therefore , social media is truly good for people .
Secondly , the social media sites can not only connect people with their friends closely but also
People can find out information about celebrities on Twitter and Facebook such as Obama or Bill Gates and get first-hand study materials on them .
They can learn how these people succeed and they can also have the chance to talk with them and find out these famous people 's thoughts by using social media .
On the other hand , with the help of social media , some homeless people or someone in need of money to cure a disease can get help from the world quickly because once one person knows the information , he or she will share it with their friends , then many people will know about it and spread the information to the person who can help .
On the other hand , there are also problems with the population of the social media .
Firstly , when people rely on social media to communicate with their friends and parents , they will become accustomed to communicating by typing and not talking .
People may even prefer talking to their friends and meeting their friends online and gradually reject face-to-face communication .
Therefore , social media limit the interpersonal skills such that people lose the chance and the ability to practice talking and reenforcing the relationships between him and his friends .
Secondly , without real life communication , people lose the ability to see what is the truth and what is false .
There are many people on the social media with beautiful images and good content on their pages , however in real life , he or she may not have a job or live poorly .
Teenagers may believe these people and easily be cheated and lose money or even their safety .
Therefore , the social media are not safe which is bad for teenagers ' future development .
All in all , the appearance of social media helps people a lot in many areas .
However , there exist some disadvantages which will affect people to some degree .
Advantages and Disadvantages of Using Social Media in Our Daily life and Society .
Nowadays , with the development of technology and society , social media has become more popular and even more important in our daily life .
We communicate with others using social media , such as Twitter , Facebook and microblogs more and more frequently .
There is no need to for people to go out of their home to interact with others . they chat online , share pictures , tell others what they have done or funny stories .
It seems that people build good relationships with others by the social media , but problems do appear .
People do not know how to talk to others face-to-face , especially strangers .
we need to talk about the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in your daily life and society .
As for the advantages , there are two aspects : more convenient to contact others , easier to know about others .
One advantage is that it is more convenient to contact others by social media .
In the old days , if someone wanted to announce some important news to someone else who lives far away , he needed to write letters and it wasted time .
The long distance and time-consumption make sending the messages very difficult at that time .
Therefore , people may not contact the faraway friends and relatives unless there is something important to say .
However , people now can contact anyone all over the world who can use a computer at any time , and there is no time delay for messages .
The other advantage is that it is easier to know about others on social media .
If there was no social media , it would be difficult for people to know about a stranger .
They could collect information about that person by asking his friends , colleagues or family members .
And the information collected may not be intact and true .
Unlike today , with the help of social media , people can easily get the information they want just by searching online , and finding out about what that person did everyday and at what time .
As for the disadvantages of social media in our daily life , wasting time , causing illnesses related to sitting for a long time in front of the computer , spreading rumor and fake news , and most importantly , making people lose the ability to talk to others face-to-face confidently .
It is weird that people sit around the table but all face their phones and do not talk to each other .
If there is a joke on their Facebook page , they may talk to others in this way , " hi , look how ridiculous this is " , then they laugh together .
No matter whether it is a party , a dinner or just simply a get-together , there are always are some people bowing their heads and playing on their phones even though their family and friends are in front of them .
In a conclusion , there are both advantages and disadvantages to using social media in daily life .
People should enjoy the advantages of social media while being aware of the disadvantages and trying their best to avoid the disadvantages happening to them and their friends and family .
Today is considered to be the era of social media sites like Facebook and Twitter which are actively connecting people around the world .
However , some people worry that social networking can affect interpersonal skills as it reduces face-to-face human contact .
The advantages and disadvantages of using such social media in society are elaborated on as follows .
Nobody can deny social media 's advantages as the benefit it provides in connecting people regardless of nationalities , races , cultures and languages .
Social media is a trending channel and a suitable means of communication .
Firstly , social media brings convenience to the world .
It has erased the boundaries of distance and time .
No more worries about the time it takes to deliver letters and packages .
Nowadays , thanks to the help of social media , with just one click , you can contact your family and friends wherever you want .
You can share photos , videos and all the meaningful experiences of your life .
More importantly , it is cheap and easy to use social media .
Secondly , social media networks open the door to opportunities for people due to its great benefits in connecting .
A lot of new graduates can find jobs thanks to Facebook and Twitter .
Young people can widen their relationships , meet new friends and learn wonderful things in many parts of the world .
For business , social media is a good tool for developing and advertising products and services .
On the other hand , social media also have disadvantages which have created worries for society recently and made it a controversial phenomenon .
More and more young people tend to live in the social media world most of their time , reducing face-to-face human contact , which can affect interpersonal skills and relationships in social life .
First and foremost , we should realize that the social media world is not trustworthy and real .
Everyone can easily make up the personality and characteristics they want .
They can become anyone .
Though social media does create relationships , relationships and friendships are only solid and real if people have gone through experiences and communication in face-to-face interaction .
There is a story of a girl who lives in the social media world every night for eight years .
In the chat room , she created a close relationship with eight people .
She talked with them every night , trusted them and shared her life with them .
Then eventually she discovered that the eight people became one as someone was using eight different identities to chat with her all the time .
Furthermore , the convenience of social media is also its weakness .
A lot of people use their true information on social media sites , which can lead to crimes and deception .
People can use the information to deceive family and friends and banks to do bad things such as blackmail , ATM theft and so on .
Last but not least , social media does affect human interpersonal skills when people increase the time on social sites and reject chances to be exposed to daily life activities as well as interacting with people .
Recent research has shown that the more people spend time on social media sites , the less ambitious they become .
As a result , if the situation keeps going on in this way , it will have a bad effect on the younger generation .
To put it in a nutshell , everything has its own pros and cons and
So do social media networks .
It not only is convenient and beneficial in connecting people and developing businesses but it can also damage people 's relationships and interpersonal skills .
Social media is only beneficial as long as we know how to use it in a correct and suitable way with the combination of both social media sites and daily life interaction to develop people 's potential to the fullest .
