Keeping the Secret of Genetic Testing
What is genetic risk ?
Genetic risk refers to your chance of inheriting a disorder or disease .
People get certain diseases because of genetic changes .
How much a genetic change tells us about your chance of developing a disorder is not always clear .
If your genetic results indicate that you have gene changes associated with an increased risk of heart disease , it does not mean that you definitely will develop heart disease .
The opposite is also true .
If your genetic results show that you do not have changes associated with an increased risk of heart disease , it is still possible that you will develop heart disease .
However for some rare diseases , people who have certain gene changes are guaranteed to develop the disease .
When we are diagnosed with a certain genetic disease , are we supposed to disclose this result to our relatives ?
My answer is no .
On one hand , we do not want this potential danger to cause frightening effects in our family 's later lives .
When people around us know that we have got a certain disease , their attitudes will be easily changed , whether by caring for us too much or keeping away from us .
And neither are what we want since most of us just want to live as normal people .
Surrounded by such concerns , it is very likely that we will be distracted and worry about these problems .
It is a concern that will be with us throughout our whole life , because we will never know when the ''potential bomb' ' will explode .
On the other hand , if there are ways that can help us to control or cure the disease , we can go through these processes from the scope of the whole family .
For example , if exercising is helpful for potential family diseases , we could always look for more chances for the family to go exercise .
And we could keep track of all family members ' health conditions .
At the same time , we will be prepared to know when there are other members who have this disease .
Here I want to share Forest 's view on this issue .
Although some people feel that an individual who is found to carry a dominant gene for Huntington 's disease has an ethical obligation to disclose that fact to their siblings , there is currently no legal requirement to do so .
In fact , requiring someone to communicate their own genetic risk to family members who are therefore also at risk is considered by many to be ethically dubious .
"
Nothing is absolutely right or wrong .
If a certain genetic test for a disease is very accurate and it is both unavoidable and necessary to get treatment , and be known by others , it is OK to disclose the result .
Above all , life is more important than a secret .
Genetic risk does carry its consequences and should not be taken lightly within the family circle .
After all , what affects one family may or may not affect another , even if the families have a common genetic make up , shared by either of the parents .
In cases where an individual has gotten to know of a genetic disorder , disclosing it or otherwise to his or her relatives is solely a matter of preference within the individual 's moral system .
The issue of the right to know or not to know is highly debatable . Although it is a genetic risk , one can not be entirely sure because the genetic information could possibly occur in the family of either parent - maternal and paternal uncles , aunts or cousins .
This also means that as soon as a person is made aware of his or her genetic profile , he or she concurrently has knowledge about others ' .
This knowledge may be relevant to them , and vice versa .
An example that may serve as an illustration is breast cancer .
It is hereditary .
Should one who suffered from this disease keep it a secret or inform their relatives ?
In retrospect , it is also one 's duty to ensure that he or she undergoes periodic health checks of their own .
Sometimes family structure and cultural beliefs can influence the pattern of communication .
Depending on whom the genetic risk was discovered from : the son or daughter for example , the parents who know about this would decide who gets told and who takes precedence in being 'allowed ' to tell .
For example , within a family , regardless of who has first received the genetic information , parents would be seen as having the primary responsibility to pass on information to any offspring .
In addition , a woman who tested positive for BRCA1 would be expected to allow her brother or sister to disclose such information to a niece or nephew rather than do it herself , although this may be further complicated by an individual 's response to risk information that they do not want to know .
Hence , there would also be tension if participants felt that they could neither pass on information to relatives who needed to know ( such as nieces and nephews ) , nor persuade those with authority ( the parents ) to do so .
The notion of authority also extends 'vertically' .
For example , a grandmother may have more authority to pass on information than an aunt , even when she is not at genetic risk herself , while the aunt is .
From a practitioner 's perspective these findings are important because they may not be in line with geneticists ' views of family relationships , or about which blood ( or non-blood ) relatives should be informed and by whom ; this is also likely to be dependent on the cultural and ethnic context .
Ultimately , one must bring attention to who may benefit from such information and assist those at risk to make considered decisions about disclosure .
Whose duty it is to inform relatives who are at risk or not greatly depends on personal morals and the nature of how 'directive ' the risk is to them .
People with close blood relationships generally carry some similar genes .
In this case , if one of the family members or close relatives is found to carry a genetic risk , it is better for the patient to tell their close relatives about the issue and let others know about the risk so that their family members are able to perform some daily exercises to prevent the potential disease , or they could go to hospital and check for the corresponding flaws .
In my opinion , although the announcement of carrying genetic risk involves the issue of privacy , it is necessary for the carrier to raise the issue with his or her relatives in order for them to prevent the potential disease .
I agree with this statement to a large extent .
Let us focus on the negative side of the announcement of genetic risk first .
Large numbers of patients with a genetic risk would want to keep it a secret as the genetic risk may indicate their high chance of carrying a certain disease .
Especially for young unmarried people , if they are known to have some genetic risk , there may be a certain chance that their child would carry the same disease , but not for certain .
Therefore , keeping the information a secret from their future spouse would help the relationship .
Secondly , announcing the potential risk would cause the family member to be scared of this issue , and although the factor would not be that serious , people would still fear that they would get some potential disease in the future and thus go to hospital to do additional checks or take more medicine in order to prevent the disease , and this would create unnecessary costs to the family .
Furthermore , the announcement of genetic risk would affect the relationship with relatives as sometimes others may not want to stay too close to the carrier to ensure that they have less chance of getting the potential disease .
On the other hand , if the genetic risk is kept secret , although it may benefit the carrier to a certain extent and help keep their privacy , it will have a much larger negative impact on their family members and relatives .
First , in the case of marriage , a person should be honest and tell their spouse they may carry a certain genetic risk that may affect their offspring .
It is better to let the other party know this fact now rather than after a baby is born and certain type of genetic disease is found .
It is better for both parties to be honest .
Secondly , genetic disease has a close relationship with the together with their daily habits .
For example , if a carrier is told that they have the risk of having diabetes .
In this case , the carrier could eat less candy and chocolate and prevent intake of too much sugar , and at the same time , if the carrier tells this information to their relatives , it will be useful for them to know that they may have diabetes in the future because of related genes and they can perform the same exercises to take in less sugar to prevent the disease .
Otherwise , if the other parties did not know , they may end up with diabetes in the future without any prevention .
In conclusion , we can tell that the benefits of telling the carrier 's relatives about their genetic risk overweighs the costs .
Therefore , it would be better for the carrier to be obligated to tell the information to their relatives , in order to let them know and prevent the potential disease through daily exercises .
Among all kinds of different diseases , a large amount of disorders are caused by genetic factors .
Genetic disorders may or may not be inherited hereditary diseases and it is sometimes hard to find out if one has one of these kinds of diseases .
It has long been debated whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell their relatives that their disease is caused by genes .
From a legal aspect , the answer is no . But from an ethical aspect , the answer should be yes .
We can not make a law to push a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell their relatives about their genetic problem .
It is immoral and impractical .
Firstly , someone having some kind of disease is a matter of their own privacy .
Privacy protection is part of one 's human rights .
If a law requires someone to tell others their private matters , especially when they are not willing to do so .
It is againt their human rights and it is against the law 's spirit .
The law 's spirit also includes fairness .
What is the basic difference between genetic disorders and other disorders ?
It is unfair to release a law only pointing to genetic disorders .
In addition , it is impractical to make such a law .
A good law should be clear and easy to execute .
However , there are many problems with asking a carrier to tell their relatives the cause of their disease .
Firstly , what is the range of the relatives ?
For example , does the carrier only need to tell their direct relatives like parents and brothers and sisters , or does he also need to tell relatives like his grandmother 's sister 's son 's daughter 's nephew ?
If you say they only need to tell direct relatives , it will be against the fairness of law .
Other relatives may have the same possibility of having this kind of disease .
How can a law made by the government exempt such a group of people from preparing to face their potential disease ?

To the carrier himself or herself , they should have a feeling of resposiblity to tell their relatives about their genetic disorder .
By doing this , they may be able to save the lives of their relatives .
It is because a carrier with bad genes may not necessary get that genetic disease , if they can have a correspondingly healthy lifestyle before the age that the gene 's function become stronger .
A typical example is hypertension caused by genetics .
Hypertension can be caused by genetic problems which make it harder to digest the fat and salt in blood , which can cause hypertension .
People usually get this kind of hypertension after they become an adult .
However , if they already know they have a gene that may make them have a higher possibility getting hypertension .
They can build a daily habit to eat less salt and fat and thus to avoid hypertension .
In a nutshell , our society can not push a genetic problem carrier to talk about their disease to their relatives but they should be willing to tell their relatives about their genetic problem .
By doing so , less of their loved ones will suffer from the genetic problem .
In an age of rapid technological advancement , a lot of medical breakthroughs have been made possible .
Genetic testing is made possible and available for one to decide to undergo .
It is able to detect illnesses or diseases and even a child 's parentage .
However , it will become a controversial issue when it becomes a dilemma for a carrier of a known genetic risk to inform their relatives .
If the knowledge of the genetic risk was to be shared with the family or relatives , there might be a chance of them having it in their blood , which they could do the necessary precautions to prevent .
But , if the genetic disease is a terminal disease , most of the relatives will be disheartened to have knowledge of it .
Therefore , some carriers will be of the opinion of keeping it a secret .
This essay will discuss whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should tell their relatives or not .
Some say that genetic risk that is found in a person should be kept secret because it is considered to be personal information which should be kept confidential .
Most patients will be depressed after discovering their condition .
If one has a genetic disease after the test , they might not wish to inform their relatives as he might end up disheartening his extended family .
Some will wish to keep it to themselves in the hope of ensuring that they will not bring any pessimism into their family .
Furthermore , some will wish not to become a burden to anyone , as seeking medical attention is relatively costly .
Hence , some see it as being considerate to keep the genetic risk of getting the disease confidential .
On the other hand , others may think that it would be considerate to tell their relatives because the latter will have a higher likelihood of having the same genetic risk .
Hence , they will be able to seek help from medical specialists to find a cure , or to take some measures to prevent the risk of getting the disease .
Nevertheless , this would depend on the kind of genetic disease , in the context of current medical technology .
For example , breast cancer is a genetic disease and it can be cured if it is discovered in the early stages .
Hence , with the knowledge of having a genetic risk , the relatives of a person with a genetic disease could do a medical check-up , which might save them by discovering it at an earlier stage .
In conclusion , it would be considerate to inform the relatives of the risk of getting the same genetic disease .
Although there might be a lot of challenges along the way in seeking medical attention , such as financial issues , everyone should be given the right to know their family 's inherited medical conditions .
However , some think that it would be better for those who are ignorant about it to continue leading a happy life .
In addition , some think that even knowing about having genetic risk for the disease will just add on to their misery as there is nothing that they can do about it .
All-in-all , it depends on the individual and also the nature of the disease , but they should be obligated to inform the relatives if there is a possibility of curing or preventing it .
Genetic testing is a personal decision , with the knowledge that there is a possibility that one could be a carrier .
Those who are born into a family with a history of genetic disease should be allowed to undergo genetic testing , even if there is no risk at all .
Early examination is advisable as it will cast away unwanted doubts and affect the psychological thoughts of those who are affected .
For a genetic risk carrier , there should be a choice given with regards to informing their relatives .
They should not be forced or obliged to do so , as this may both negatively and drastically affect the emotions of the genetic risk carrier .
In regard to being given this choice , there must be some rules to regulate and exercise the personal freedom of decision making .
If the genetic risk carrier is a minor or a child , then most likely the decision of informing their relatives should be made with the consideration of the patient 's parents or legal guardians .
Such patients are still emotionally volatile and they may be unaware of the consequences of a genetic disorder on account of to their young age .
Furthermore , the act of informing others without the consent of the parents or the patient themselves could harm the psychological state of the affected family .
Thus , much thought need to put toward the immediate family as it could cause a stir of unwanted events for the patient or their family members .
Some family members may feel hurt , with regards to their family pride or reputation , to have the knowledge of a genetic disorder running in their family .
However , they have a role and a sense of responsibility to inform their relatives since it is a genetic disorder .
There could be a possibility that the genetic disorder could also affect their relatives and any other families within the same family tree .
The importance of informing relatives of a genetic disease is vital as it may help to raise awareness and prevention of the genetic disorder .
Also , the information will help their relatives to make informed decisions and similarly to undergo genetic testing to find out the outcome .
Thus , having the knowledge that the genetic disorder is benign would be beneficial for them emotionally .
And if the results turned out to be otherwise , then the family would be prepared both emotionally and psychologically for the future outcome and be aided in making upcoming decisions .
In addition , the genetic risk carrier would be showered with moral and emotional support from their relatives if it has been made known to them .
Having support from relatives is vital as they can assure the genetic risk carrier that they are not alone in facing this illness and it will certainly provide a morale boost as the whole family will share a common sentiment with regards to the future prospect of getting the genetic disorder , which could be inherited by anyone in the family .
Therefore , the decision to inform relatives of a genetic disorder will be dependent on the situation and background of the affected family , with the liberty of choice given to them in making the decision to inform others .
A person with a disorder , regardless of whether it is a mental or physical disorder , .
When it comes to genetic issues , it is not so simple anymore .
Genetic disorder inheritance occurs generation by generation , but not all of the offspring show the relevant symptoms .
Sometimes a family with a potential genetic disorder risk may not be able to detect the potential harm inside their bodies as none of their family members have any observable disorder symptoms .
As a result , in the case that one of the family members happens to feel uncomfortable or unwell , they should aware of whether the disorder in their body carries a genetic risk or not .
Afterward , the carrier will face a serious ethical issue , which is whether to reveal the problem to their relatives or not .
If the disorder 's symptoms appear on a child , the parents will be informed by the medics , and then the whole family can stay alert to their condition of their bodies .
On the contrary , when the carrier is an adult , who has their own choice of whether to choose to inform their relatives about the risk or not , it will become more complex .
One may think that if the carrier is a caring person who loves their family more than themselves , there would be no doubt that he or she would tell their family about the issue .
That is true , and of course it is the obligation of a family member to protect and take care of their family .
Thinking of it the other way , if a child in the family knows that they have the risk of becoming a genetic risk carrier , and the risk may well be inherited by their child in the future , their whole life will be in a dilemma .
And of course , they will think about not having any children after getting married , and the same thought goes for the cousins as well .
As a result , the family 's next generation stops at the moment the adult carrier announces his issue .
In China , the older generation from background in traditional culture , would always want to have more children as well as grandchildren , to make the family .
The reason behind is that after World War II , the population of China decreased dramatically and so the government encouraged the people to have more babies .
During that period , if one of the family members shows genetic disorder symptoms , they would have fallen in an ethical dilemma for sure .
The medical treatment technology during that time was not advanced enough to completely cure him .
He would have had to choose whether to protect his family or make his family more .
And so , he would have chosen not to undergo genetic disorder testing and let the truth be forever .
This kind of ethical issue can not be judged by others because they would not understand the position and duty of the carrier in the family .
In conclusion , people should think carefully about what the consequences are of telling their relatives their generic disorder issue .
It is an obligation for a carrier to inform their relatives , but also an obligation for a family member to the family .
Regardless , if the disorder is rarely fatal , or it does not cause any inconvenience to the carrier , revealing the truth is always the right thing to do .
In my opinion , the carrier should tell their relatives about it .
One of the reasons why is because as a carrier , they need emotional support to go through this situation .
It will be hard for an individual to deal with the issue on their own .
By talking to their family then other than being a support , they could possibly help them to get alternative solutions to the problem that they are facing right now .
Other than that , I believe that the stong bond we have with our family would be the biggest pillar of support to the carrier .
Furthermore , as it is a genetic problem , it would be better for the carrier to inform their family , as other family member might experience the same thing .
By making sure that they are aware of this genetic problem , they could get a complete check-up for themselves and it would be better if they could even prevent it from happening .
I think that it is important to inform relatives , especially if it is a contagious disease , . The carrier could prevent the disease from spreading out into society .
For every action there are always pros and cons .
I believe that some carriers would choose to not reveal their disease to their family members as they would not want to make their family members worry and feel uncomfortable , or even to feel ostracized by them .
Furthermore , as it could incur spending lots of money on treatment , the carrier might not want to be a burden on their family .
I could understand the carrier 's feelings .
They would not want to be a source of unhappiness for their family .
However , we will never know whether this negative effect would happen if the carrier decided to tell their family of their condition .
In conclusion , I personally feel that it would be better for the carrier to inform their family members about the issue .
The carrier should be honest about their feelings and I think that it is the right of their family members to know what is going on in their life .
If anything wrong happened in the carrier 's life , then without informing their family members it could become a huge regret in their family members ' lives if they die without them knowing about it .
On top of that , it is better to think about solutions for their problem with their family members , as there would be more people to think about it rather than thinking about it alone and struggling on your own .
In the end , I believe that support in terms of emotional or even monetary support from their family could help the carrier to fight against the genetic disease .
True enough , there are lots of cancer patients who were given a second chance to live as a normal person as they had strong emotional support from their loved ones .
In my opinion , as long as we keep our minds healthy and strong , we can fight any disease as they come to us when we are fragile and weak .
As techonology has advanced , it has reached a stage where the advancement triggers some ethical dilemmas in relation to the actual use of the techonology .
Genetic testing has been made possible - it has become easy to tell if one is a carrier of a known genetic risk through genetic testing .
If used for a good purpose , it can prevent unnecessary unhappiness . However , it could also make situation worse by revealing who the carrier is in the family .
The question is whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell their relatives . I think that the carrier should not be obligated to do so because I believe that they have right not to .
Firstly , genetic testing is not something that is compulsory .
Of course , some people may do it to make their futures slightly happier . However , the carrier , before testing , can choose not to go for the test and simply live with unknown and accept the facts .
If he chooses to live with the uncertainty that the gene holds and is willing to accept it , he could do that , and it would be something that was 'normal ' to everyone in the past as genetic testing was not possible .
It could instead be better for them this way .
Some people might say that it is a form of preventing giving birth to disabled children and making them suffer in real life .
I personally think this is the proper purpose of going through genetic testing , so that a family who can not afford to have a disabled child do not have to give birth to their child and make the entire family suffer .
However , I believe that the carrier has right not to be obligated to tell anyone but has a responsiblity to take an action to prevent any ethical dilemma .
If the result turned out to be something that the carrier could not accept then they would have been better not knowing the truth .
I believe that even the carrier has the right not to know the true facts .
After realizing the they are a carrier , the emotional damage would be hard to bear .
It could possibly cause a problem in a family due to the fact that it would create more unhappiness in the family .
Overall , I believe that it entirely depends on the carrier to share the facts and face them with relatives , but he has no obligation to tell .
In fact , I strongly believe that the carrier should weigh both the positive and negative consequences of taking the genetic tests and take appropriate actions with the results .
The depression that the carrier might feel and the sense of guilt could be greater than expected and could be a burden for the rest of their life .
On the other hand , without knowing about any genetic disorder and , the family will stay positive and work together to overcome the disability .
I think the family would stay mentally healthy , without having emotional stress .
Debates have been going on for years , about whether a carrier for a known genetic risk should be obligated to inform their relatives about it .
Any individual at risk for a disorder has the right to undergo genetic testing , but whether the results should be disclosed to others , especially to close family or relatives , is a topic that is worth discussing .
This issue needs to be addressed , as family-related ethical dilemmas are involved .
In this essay , some arguments will be pointed out in support of the view that any carrier of a known genetic risk should tell their relatives .
When we are born , we are surrounded by our family and relatives , with them welcoming us into the world .
We cry hard but we are not alone , as it is our family and relatives who raise us .
Hence , they should be the people we are grateful for , and the people we would like to share happiness with .
However , in cases pertaining to any health issues , or to serious disorders , there may seem to be no point in sharing it , but this involves more than just the sharing of bad news .
A person definitely has the right to disclose their health issues to anyone , but it is also their responsibility to inform their family and close relatives .
As their health issues are related to genetic risk , with the emphasis on " genetic " , which highlights the risk of passing down the disorder to the next generation .
Therefore , I would agree that it should be obligatory for a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell their relatives so as avoid any family-related ethical dilemmas that could be raised in the future .
Despite the fact that one may argue that it is still up to the individual whether to disclose their health issues , or to keep it to themselves , it would certainly be helpful to share it with close relatives , to properly discuss the solutions .
By doing so , one will feel less stressful in facing such disorder risk .
Relatives will certainly be supportive and show more caring towards the carrier of a known genetic risk .
By informing them , the carrier will never be alone in fighting the battle against the risk of such a disorder .
On top of that , because the genetic risk may pass down to the next generation , it will involve more than just one family .
Therefore I would argue for the obligation of telling the relatives of both parties when someone is about to get married and plans on having a baby .
This would avoid more family-related ethical dilemmas .
There are more that could support the argument for informing the relatives once the results are known , after the test is conducted .
In conclusion , in order to avoid a family-related ethical dilemma , it is best for any carrier of a known genetic risk to inform their relatives .
The benefits of doing so can outweigh its disadvantages .
More support must be provided through different means in order to give better direction when someone is standing at the junction between informing their relatives or not .
The decision to undergo genetic testing can only be made by the individual at risk for a disorder .
This is the common law in society .
However , it leads to a new problem of " should a carrier of a known genetic risk be obligated to tell their relatives ?
" This issue has been discussed for a long time .
However , there is still a diversity of opinions among people .
Thus , we are going to identify the advantages and disadvantages of the issue of " should or should not " .
Firstly , I believe most of us will agree with the following sentence : " I would be anxious about my family member if they told me that they were a carrier of a known genetic risk " .
Frequently , the intention of the carrier who does not want to tell their family is to continue their own life without dealing with the anxieties of their family .
It is obvious that it would be better for one person to be worried than many .
However , carriers are not strong enough to overcome the challenges themselves .
With their families ' support , there must be more efforts to fight against the disease .
A disease is not easily defeated and it requires much energy and psychological support .
Families give you the courage and support which you can not get by yourself .
These are the most essential elements to overcome these challenges .
Besides that , the known genetic risk is so serious that it can not be described .
The seriousness can be bigger than our imagination .
Lying on a bed for the rest of your life , and even dying immediately , are consequences which we can not imagine .
Families are the dearest things in our lives .
Without their concern and support , we will find it hard to .
They play an important role in our lives , which can not be substituted .
A known genetic risk can also affect the next generation critically .
Therefore , it is our responsibility to tell our relatives in order to prevent undesired consequences .
Generally , the clinic or hospital will not tell the carrier 's families without the agreement of the carrier .
It is ethical for the staff in hospitals to keep the confidentiality of any patients .
We can not blame them if they are liable for the undesired consequences .
However , the hospital can provide a councilor to advise the carrier about the actions that can be taken .
Therefore , these kinds of circumstances will not happen again and again .
It is a method that benefits both parties and is a win-win situation .
In conclusion , a carrier of a known genetic risk is encouraged to tell their relatives about the known genetic risk .
However , there may be some special cases that is hard to define .
Thus , advice from a hospital plays the important role in doing this .
The carrier is responsible for balancing their own interests , the benefits to the family and even to society .
It is a hard decision to make but when done in the most appropriate way , it will create good circumstances for the carrier and their family in the future .
With the risk of having a genetic disorder , many individuals have made the decision to undergo genetic testing .
With the knowledge that the results will be known once the tests are done , each individual that is diagnosed to be a genetic risk carrier faces an ethical problem : should they warn their relatives about the risk of being a carrier of the same genetic risk .
Or they could choose to keep silent until the next carrier is diagnosed .
To the point of view , a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell their relatives , with the support of the following arguments .
First of all , from the angle of human rights , a genetic risk carrier should not be obligated to tell the truth to others .
This diagnosis can be regarded as a matter of privacy to carriers .
They may not want this truth to influence their lives , or want to keep it as a secret and do not want others to know about it .
This is reasonable since the exposure of the truth of being a carrier may make them be discriminated against or pitied by others , which would not not be positive factors in their lives .
Secondly , the relatives of the carrier can also choose to do genetic testing regardless of the diagnosis of the carrier .
When people want to check whether they are genetic risk carriers , they can approach a doctor to consult about it .
If they do not want to think too much about it and view it as a problem , they may just ignore the possibility .
However , if a diagnosed carrier is obligated to tell their relatives , the relatives will be forced to know about their higher chance of being genetic risk carriers .
This as they have to accept the truth , which may make the rest of their life miserable .
Many people may argue that enforcing the obligation may help many people , who are relatives of the carriers , have a greater opportunity to save their own lives because of the early diagnosis .
However , this is not exactly true when other factors , including psychological influence , and social influence , are taken into consideration .
If one such relative is told that they may have a higher risk of getting sick , they may be scared about the unknown , and that partners , spouses and colleagues may choose to leave , and many other situations may occur which means the relative 's life may be ruined .
On the other hand , as stated above , a person who wants to whether they have a genetic risk and is prepared to face the result can choose to do the genetic testing individually .
In a nutshell , a carrier of a known genetic risk should have their own right to decide whether to tell their relatives or not .
This should be accepted from the standpoint of human rights , freedom of acceptance of relatives as well as many other social reasons .
Otherwise , making it an obligation will restrict the choice of carriers and bring a lot of confusion to their relatives .
For a carrier of genetic disorder , to know that they are a carrier , it causes a greater dilemma than getting the disorder .
I agree that a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell their relatives .
There are four reasons why people do not have to be shy and should share their problems regarding a genetic disorder .
Firstly , the carrier and their family can take precautions , through physical actions , to reduce the chances of it being passed down to offspring , and mentally if these actions fail to prevent it from being inherited .
Many syndromes , such as Down Syndrome and Taylor Syndrome , can be prevented from happening if the mother takes proper medication and does not consume harmful substances during the pregnancy period .
This information may not be known by the mother if she does not tell her relatives about her condition .
The more people ( relatives ) know about her problem , the more advice can be provided .
If all efforts have been made but the children still inherit the syndrome then the family will have to accept this fact and do whatever they can to provide a good environment for their children 's development .
This is not the parents ' fault because there are still chances of the gene being inherited .
So , they have to also prepare themselves mentally .
Secondly , genetic diseases have a high cost for treatment and medication .
Albinism is one example .
People with albinism have sensitive skin which needs regular treatment .
Unlike people with a high proportion of skin pigment , people with albinism are prone to sunburn and other skin diseases .
If they do not treat their body well , such as by using sunglasses or wearing sunscreen outdoors , the chances are high that they will have skin problems that may also lead to cancer .
Once you suffer from cancer , the cost of medication is very expensive .
To prevent bigger problems from happening , it takes a lot of effort to take care of your body .
If the carrier does not tell their relatives , it may be too late to get their support and prepare financially .
Thirdly , some diseases are not noticeable and may lead to serious health problems .
One of these diseases is sickle cell trait .
Usually people are not aware that they carry the sickle cell gene and this may lead to circulatory problems such as blood blocking .
If the parents know that one of them is a carrier and disclose the information to their relatives then they can take their children to undergo genetic testing and do not need to be wary of it because it is for the sake of their children 's health .
Fourthly , it is important for the parents to give a mental boost to their children with the genetic disorder .
When their children become teenagers , a lot of social problems may arise .
People and friends often mock your conditions .
A strong mental condition and conviction must be built from within and from their closest relatives .
If not their family who else would be willing to do that ?
It is not a difficult job for the family if they have prepared their minds first by disclosing the information about the probability that their children may suffer from a genetic disorder .
In the modern world , technology has improved a lot compared to the last century .
Particularly , in the medical field , there has been great improvement in many treatments for many formerly incurable diseases , and genetic testing is one of the methods which is used to diagnose an individual at risk for a genetic disorder .
The medical authorities claim that only the individual who is at risk for a genetic disorder can make the decision to undergo genetic testing .
However , once a test has been conducted and the results are known , a family-related ethical dilemma is born .
The question is whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should tell their relatives .
In my opinion , the carrier of a known genetic risk has to tell their relatives about it .
This is because their relatives have the right to know about it .
As many people realize , a genetic disorder can be a concern for the carrier 's relatives , that is , if one of the family members is at risk for a genetic disorder then that means that other family members also have an almost equal risk of having it , and so this problem should be treated seriously by the family .
Every family member has a right to know what is going to affect their health .
If they do not even know that they are at risk for a genetic disorder , how can this correspond with their rights ?
For instance , John is informed by his doctor that he is at risk for a genetic disorder but he does not tell his sibling , James , about this .
Although telling James about this is unpleasant to some extent , he should know what will be likely to happen his health .
It might be beneficial for his future if he is aware of the risk of having this disorder .
The next point is that telling relatives can raise their awareness of having a similar genetic disorder , preventing certain genetic disorders from affecting themselves .
Genetic disorders are innate , but the great improvement in medical treatment makes it possible for humans to prevent the disorder or to reduce the negative effects of the disorder on themselves .
In addition , doctors usually quote a statement , " Prevention is better than curation " ; this gives us the idea that preventing a disorder from happening has far more advantages than curing it .
Being aware of having a genetic risk may help in diagnosing a genetic disorder in a person , and therefore , this may make the prevention of a certain disorder possible .
For example , hypertension is partially due to genetic factors , but environmental factors also play an important role .
People who aware of having such a disorder can prevent the disorder from happening by adapting a healthy lifestyle , which includes having a balanced diet and at least getting exercise for 30 minutes every day .
To sum up , a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell their relatives .
It is their human right to know about it , and it may also save their lives by preventing the disorder from happening .
Together with the advancement of technology over past decades , medical advancement has increased exponentially and further enhancements are still constantly happening . upgrading.By empowering doctors with advanced medical knowledge , they are able to diagnose and perform genetic testing for patients to help them prevent disease and take the necessary steps to protect their lives . However , once a test has been conducted and the results are known , the question of disclosing the results to their relatives becomes a challenging issue for both patients and doctors . In my opinion , I feel a strong urge to support the obligation to inform patient 's relatives .
As it is a genetic risk , the patient 's next-of-kin might have a high chance of carrying the risk , hence the need to inform their relatives is an important one so that the necessary prevention actions can be taken before unforeseen circumstances might occur . For example , if you are the only child in a family and , unfortunately , you are suffering from a genetic disease where the genetic trait might be passed on to the next generation if you have a child . Hence , by making your family members know about the situation , it would lessen your family 's stress and insistence on forcing you to settle down and have children . However , social ethics issues like discrimination and privacy are big concerns and can be barriers toward enforce patients or doctors to disclose information to patients ' relatives . It challenges the principles of privacy and confidentiality . Currently , under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ( HIPAA ) in the United States , there is no legal obligation to disclose information to relatives , and it is up to the patient to disclose it to their family members . Early disclosure to family members brings a positive reaction and prevention , as in the case of Angelina Jolie , when she chose to disclose the information and underwent treatment to reduce the risk of breast cancer significantly , to under five percent . I still can recall her reason for disclosing her own story was that she does not want to live under the shadow of cancer .
However , there are still people who are the decision of revealing private information . As in the case of Alzheimer 's patients , it is up to the patient to disclose the information . However , research has shown that doctors have tried to interpret who,how and to whom should Alzheimer 's disease be disclosed to minimise potential negative impact to family members ( DementiaToday , 2012 ) . There are associations which provide help to Alzheimer 's patients , such as Alzheimer 's Association ( Alzheimer 's Association , 1980 ) . Although there are still thousands of genetic risk diseases out there that might not receive help and support from everyone , the need to receive immediate understanding and support from family members is a great help that patients need in their difficult time .
In conclusion , the state should have passed a legal bill to measure and provide information to doctors which extend to whether a doctor should opt to reveal to family members the genetic disease , and in which situations it should be left to the choice . In addition , the state could also encourage the creation of assistance schemes to provide the necessary help to needy patients to encourage them to open up for the benefit of themselves and their members . Although it may face challenges because of social ethics issues , in the long term , with appropriate encouragement and aid from the government , more individuals would have a different view of acceptance and take appropriate measurements to protect their own health and that of their loved ones .
Nowadays , research in the genetic field has gone further and further due to rapid technological advancements .
Not long ago , the human genome projects , sponsored by several large multinational corporations ( MNCs ) was started .
In comparison , in the field of genetic testing , which enables people to be aware of the risk of a possible genetic disorder , as the technology has become very sophisticated already , an even more popular topic arises .
While most people agree that each individual has their own right to decide whether to undergo genetic testing or not , they have different opinions about whether it is the patient 's responsibility or choice to share the result with their relatives .
In my opinion , the patients , who are carriers of some known genetic risk , are supposed to share the truth with their family members .
Admittedly , it is a social obligation to be responsible for the lives of other people .
For the whole society , it is a duty .
Take H1N1 as an example . All the people in Singapore , including students at school , travelers at Changi Airport , workers in the office , as well as passengers on the street , are forced by law to take their temperature and report the result to the relevant government authority in charge .
To the family members who care about them , it is also a moral obligation .
How can they not tell their loved ones who they really are and put their loved ones in danger ?
The basis of a family is that everyone trusts and loves each other with no reservations .
Without trust and love , there is no difference between a family and a group of strangers living together .
Hence , it is essential to tell family members about the risk of the genetic disorder , both as a social responsibility and a favor to protect the family .
Moreover , telling your family members the truth is the fastest and easiest way to get their support .
Without the support of loved ones , patients ' lives are no better than death .
Family , as one the closest groups of people from whom they can get comfort , is a crucial factor for them to successfully get over any possible troubles as a result of their genetic disorder .
A study by New York University in 2010 showed that patients with family members present generally recovered 2-4 days faster than those taken care of by professional nurses .
Even for patients with terminal diseases , the increase in their survival is 30 % longer due to their family 's support .
Some people might say that telling the truth could raise some unnecessary doubts and panic which will endanger the family 's harmony .
While every family needs to go through this or that kind of troublesome situation , the more troubles that a family has gone through together , the greater the bond that will be established between the family members as well as a greater amount of trust , love and understanding .
Hence , for a family in which every member is truly believes in each other and loves each other , all these troubles are just trials to make them stronger .
Just as in the lyrics of Kelly Clarkson , what does n't kill you makes you stronger .
Living in an Asian society where genetic testing is not a common practice , I do think that it should be the patient 's choice whether they want to tell their relatives about their disease .
The courage to take the genetic testing and to inform their relatives about the risk that they have could result in people being judgmental , when actually it is only a risk and not a confirmed case .
Furthermore , since it is the person 's genes that are affected , he has the right to determine with whom he wants to share the information .
Nevertheless , while I feel that a carrier should not be obligated to tell their relatives about the genetic risk , I would like to suggest that the person at least shares the information with their potential partner ( husband or wife ) since the individual 's genetic risk may affect their future children .
Many people in our society are ill-informed about many genetic diseases , and many of them will most likely judge or at least differentiate between those who have genetic diseases , since they may feel that the patients are abnormal or 'weird' .
This is because many relate genetic diseases to those such as Bubble-Boy disease , autism or Down syndrome .
In those diseases , many people who are affected do actually have different physical characteristics compared to those without the genetic diseases .
While we do know that we should not discriminate against them based on their limitations , many people still do it with or without realizing it .
In this particular case , we are discussing whether a person should tell his relatives about having a RISK of a particular genetic disease .
It is normal for people to demand for fair and similar treatment to others , and therefore it is normal for people to try to keep some of their secrets or personal issues to themselves in case some people judge them or treat them differently . Many people really like to hear what they want to hear and therefore they may just ignore the word 'risk ' and assume that the person has suffered from the disease .
To prevent that from happening , I do feel that it is up to the person whether he wants to share the information with his family , since his family may either be paranoid or judge him and act differently .
Especially when it is just a risk , the option is really his since he is not an actual sufferer .
There may be some people who say that it is necessary to tell their family members about the risk , since some of them may be affected . While I do think that this view has a point , how far you can trust your family regarding this issue may also be an issue .
Maybe we can trust our immediate family members , but can we really trust all our other relatives ?
Furthermore , since the genetic risk or genetic disease is a very personal case , it is the person 's call whether to tell their relatives about it .
However , as I said earlier , it is better for the person to at least tell their future partner about the potential risk since his genetic risk may affect his children later .
This information needs to at least be acknowledged by the other party before they make the decision to get married and have children .
There may be a possibility that both the husband and wife are carriers and therefore they should not have any children since their child may not be able to survive even after they are born .
Or in a less extreme case , the child may be disabled .
This piece of information does play a role in family planning matters , therefore , although no one is obliged to talk about their genetic risk to anyone , they should be encouraged to talk about it to their future partner .
In conclusion , whether or not the carrier wants to tell his relatives about his genetic risk , the choice is his because they are his own genes and he has the full right to tell .
He may have different considerations than just the judgements of other people , or it may result in making his family worry for nothing . When thinking about whether he should tell his relatives , and no matter what choice he makes , we need to respect it and we have no right to say that he must tell his relatives about it .
We all know that life is priceless and we have no right to judge a person 's .
With the improvements in technology , the possibility of living with a genetic risk can be detected .
Genetic risk refers to your chance of inheriting a disorder or disease .
Therefore an entirely new dilemma arises : should a carrier of a known genetic risk be obligated to tell their relatives ?
This essay will discuss the reasons why the parents ought to be informed that their child has a genetic risk .
One of the reasons why parents should be informed is that they have to decide whether they are capable of raising a child with a genetic risk .
The child with the genetic risk may not have the ability to work , to start a family , and most of the time they are not accepted by the majority .
They may not able to enjoy the things that normal people can enjoy .
This competitive world is cruel to those who are not able to survive .
Parents and relatives have to work longer than expected and seemingly endlessly to care for their child if they is not able to care for themselves .
This situation may become worse if the child has a disease like cancer or heart disease , which means that their parents have another heavy burden in the form of medication fees .
Not only the child , but also the rest of the family would suffer .
It would still be early for parents to decide whether they can care for a new life that is not able to work and may suffer pain for their entire life .
The other reason that parents should know if the baby they have is a carrier of a genetic risk is for the nation 's good .
There are always newspaper reports that a newborn baby has been abandoned at a hospital after they realized that the baby had diseases that needed a huge amount of money to treat .
In countries like Singapore , they are short of manpower to contribute to the workforce .
However , every year the government has to spend a lot of money to help the disabled , including medical subsidies , and builds special schools to educate them .
By not increasing number of disabled people in a nation , the government will be able to concentrate on developing in other ways , like the military and education .
As citizens of a nation , they have a responsibility to support their country in many ways .
Moreover , in the world we are living in today , many abortions conducted in hospital every day .
It is easier for people to morally accept it .
Therefore I believe the parents have the right to know the health status of their child .
Many people may support the theory that everyone has the right to enjoy the world , especially religious people .
However the problem is , would a person really enjoy their life if they had to stay at the hospital every day , with all the needles and endless pain ?
Parents know what the best is for their children , thus they will make the right decision after they have been informed .
Also , human beings should improve the medical field in order to prevent tragedies from happening .
I think a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell their relatives .
Genetic testing is a personal choice .
One should have full control of the information and it is their own right to decide whether or not to disclose it to someone else .
As far as I am concerned , when a couple is going to have a baby , they are supposed to run a few tests and see whether they could have any genetic diseases .
The results should be disclosed to their husband or wife .
This is not the case I am talking about here .
The most obvious reason for those who argue for this opinion is that the relatives of the carrier have a high risk of carrying these diseases .
They have the right to know whether they are at risk .
Also , telling them the result can allow them to largely reduce the cost of multiple tests .
They can also take immediate measures to reduce the possibility of getting the disease .
If a person has disease C , that might be the result of gene A .
He runs a test and finds out that he has the gene AA .
This means both of his parents have gene A and they are both under high risk of having disease C. They could save the cost of running two separate tests to see whether they are under high risk of having disease C. If he runs a test and discovers that he has the gene Aa .
This means that one of his parents has gene A and the cost of one test can be saved .
His relatives can then take measures , if the disease can somehow be prevented , to stop the disease from taking their lives .
However , this can also be achieved by personal choice .
One can choose to tell their relatives if they are at risk .
Most people care about their relatives , and if there is no serious consequence in telling them so , I assume that most of them will tell their relatives to be careful .
One might also choose to hint or encourage certain relatives to run a genetic test if they are concerned about negative consequences that may occur when they disclose their genetic results .
There are possible negative consequences that they might face if they disclose their genetic results to their relatives .
If a person is obliged to tell their relatives , they might be discriminated against by those who do not carry the gene .
They might even be advised not to get married or have children .
For example , if an unmarried person has gene Aa , and gene aa is sufficient to get a very serious disease .
After he takes the test and is obliged to tell his relatives , everyone will know that he is a carrier .
So all married couples should run a test to know that they are not carriers . They might subconsiously see him as different and worry that he will find a wife who carries this gene as well .
Third , it is hard to define relatives .
If a gene runs in the family , and one of the family members tests positive , who does he need to tell ?
If it have a big family , is he obliged to tell everyone ?
Spouses usually have very close relationships , so if person A tells his family that he has this gene , his uncle , C , knows and tells his wife , D , that he needs to run a test because his cousin has the disease .
However , wife D is not even under risk of having the disease .
Then wife D might tell her mother , who likes to gossip on her way to the theatre .
In less than a week , half of the town knows that person A has a gene risk , and that his family might be a genetically risky family .
Then nobody would want to marry A , or his relatives .
This is a potential consequence if one does not have full control over their information , especially when the people that he is obliged to disclose his information to is potentially a large group ( relatives ) .
In conclusion , a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell their relatives .
Carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell their relatives
Nowadays , people not only pursue in comfort in their own life but also a better future for the following generations .
Since technology in modern society has become so advanced , it has become possible for people to make the decision to take genetic tests so as to be clear about whether or not they carry a genetic risk which could affect the next generation .
The question in debate , an ethical dilemma , is whether people are responsible for telling their relatives that they carry a known genetic risk .
In my opinion , the responsibility to tell family and relatives is quite obvious .
And there are two basic reasons .
The first one is the importance of being responsible for your own wellbeing and the health of your relatives , and the second one is being responsible for the next generation .
Telling of your relatives about your genetic risk is good for your wellbeing and the health of your relatives .
If you are carrying a genetic risk , then there is a great possibility that your relatives , such as parents or siblings , are carrying the same genetic risk as well .
The genetic risk that you carry may or may not affect your health and put you in danger .
If you have not undergone genetic testing , it is just chance for what will happen to both you and your relatives .
However , if you have undergone testing and know that you are a carrier , you are responsible for your whole family .
Even though you can not eliminate the risk completely , you can at least try to be alert to avoid getting the disease .
As for those in your family who are most likely to be affected , they can go to the hospital to get check-ups regularly .
Therefore , telling the relatives to get prepared to fight the disease and even prevent getting the disease is your responsibility .
Furthermore , you are also being responsible for the next generations by telling the truth that you are a carrier of a genetic risk .
If your wife is not aware of the truth and gives birth to a baby , it would be possible for your child to carry the genetic risk as well .
Being a parent , you are not being responsible for the next generations , since you allow the genetic risk to be passed on from generation to generation while being aware of it .
However , if you tell the truth to your wife and relatives , you offer a choice over whether to have child or not .
And if you still decide to have the baby , since the technology has become so advanced , it might be possible in the future that the application of gene altering will be perfected and widely used . You can then choose to give birth to babies and give them a brighter future .
This is a responsibility of being a parent .
And in my opinion , this seems to be the main purpose of undergoing genetic testing at the first place .
In conclusion , once you have undergone genetic testing and are aware of carrying some specific genetic risk , you have responsibilities to your relatives , yourself , and the following generations by telling your relatives the truth .
To tell or not to tell .
Consider a case where we decide to undergo genetic testing and find out the result of it .
We find that we actually are a genetic risk carrier .
Then it becomes troublesome to decide whether we need to tell our relatives that they may carry this genetic risk as well .
There are really a lot of things we need to consider .
Every choice we have made may have a huge impact on their whole lives .
As a result , what should we do ?
Tell them , or keep the secret until we die ?
Many people feel that we should tell our relatives if we really care about their health status .
For example , diabetes is a kind of genetic disease .
Once we find that we are carrying this genetic risk , it would be better for us to tell our family members because they may carry it as well .
If we tell them , they may start paying more attention to their daily habits , like eating less sugary foods and keeping a positive attitude .
And it is important for those young people .
The earlier we tell them , the better the they will acquire and maintain for the rest of their lives .
What is more , they may undergo genetic testing as well to see whether they are carrying it or not , which is also better for them .
However , some people may argue about why should we want to interfere with their lives ?
Sometimes it becomes extremely hard for them to accept this news , especially if they discover that they or their descendants may have a severe disease , like blood disease , which is untreatable .
Imagine you are living like a normal person but suddenly one day your relative comes and tells you that actually there is a possibility that you may get some disease in the future , what kind of feelings are you going to have ?
It may affect our daily lives and we will think about it every day .
We will become so anxious that we can not focus on anything .
At the same time , there will also be a chance that the genetic test results are not correct , which means they are actually wasting their lives worrying about this matter , so actually we would be bringing trouble to them .
Personally I feel that we should still take the responsibility of telling them about the situation .
Since this will really affect their lives , what we should do is to try to present it in a positive way .
We can not let it go .
We should know that although this may affect their lives , we can still let them make good choices for the future .
It is only after we tell them that they will start paying attention to their health .
They will consider whether to give a birth to a new baby because of this genetic problem and they will start finding ways to try to avoid their baby carrying this genetic risk as well .
They always have a choice about whether to undergo the genetic testing or not .
Maybe after we tell them , they will go for it and find out more about themselves .
I know it will have a huge impact on them , but we should know that they are our loved ones , and we need to tell them and help them .
A genetic risk carrier should be obliged to tell .
Genetic testing will be conducted when the individual is at risk of some possible disease .
Once the test is done , whether the results should be open to their relatives has caused extensive controversy .
Some say it is a kind of invasion of privacy for the carrier and their privacy should be protected .
They have the right not to tell anyone .
However , in my opinion , it is the obligation of a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell their relatives about their actual situation .
This essay will illustrate why in two arguments .
First of all , it can be a warning to the family members of the patient to let them be aware of the possible disease that they may also have .
As we all know , genetic risk carriers are likely to pass the genes on to their family members .
Once one person in the family is found to be carrying a genetic risk , other members of their family may also have the risk of disease .
Some of the diseases may not show symptoms until the carrier is of a certain age .
Therefore , telling their relatives about the situation may avoid a lot of trouble in this way and save time for proper treatment .
Sometimes lives may even be saved if they are told early and get treatment on time .
So for the consideration of the other family members , the relatives should be informed .
Secondly , it can avoid genetic disease being passed on to the next generation when they have babies .
They should let their spouse know about their situation before marriage .
They need to ask for a doctor 's advice before they plan to have a baby .
Some genetic genes will pass only to boys rather than girls , some are the opposite .
If the carrier refuses to tell the truth to their spouse , another life may be at risk of inheriting the genetic disease .
I noticed a real story in the newspaper years ago .
A couple in China have a 5-year-old son .
Their son unfortunately fell ill and he was diagnosed with a kind of genetic disease which is very serious .
They were told that the wife 's family was carrying the polygenetic disorder which can be passed only to boys rather than girls .
Therefore their son had inherited the genetic disease .
However , the wife actually had already known about the polygenetic disorder before the marriage and she did not tell her husband .
The son died after one year of treatment and the couple got divorced soon after that .
If the wife had not hid the truth and asked for a doctor 's advice before they had the baby , the tragedy would not have happened .
In a nutshell , a carrier of a known genetic risk has a responsibility to tell their relatives .
On one hand , it can alert members of the carrier 's family to the possible disease they may have and they can receive treatment in time if possible .
On the other hand , they may pass the disease to the next generation if the carrier hides the truth .
Nowadays , with the advancement of technology , it is easy to do genetic testing .
We can not deny that genetic testing really helps people a lot when they face the problem of disease .
However , I think that the genetic information is a matter of a person 's personal privacy which should be protected by the law .
Therefore , I think a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell their relatives .
There are three reasons as follows .
Firstly , information concerning genetics is something personal which is also a matter of privacy , like someone 's bank card number .
Other people should not be told without the person 's permission even if they are their relatives .
The government should set a law to protect this kind of privacy .
Once people 's genetic information is told to other people .
They may know about the person 's potential disabling disease or other .
They may become biased against the person or even abandon them .
People do not have the ability to choose their genes . They should not be thought badly of because of bad genes .
So I think whatever the genetic results are or whether the genes are a match with their parents , it should not be told to anyone , not even their relatives .
Secondly , a carrier of a known genetic risk may destroy the family harmony and even destroy the relationship between children and their parents .
Once their relatives know that .
However happy they were before , some barrier would appear which would gradually destroy the family .
The relationship between parents and their children should not be based only on genetics ; it is something much deeper and tighter .
The parents give knowledge and love to their children , and meanwhile they feel happy with the company of their children .
The children rely on their parents to live .
When they grow up , they will take care of their eldery parents and thank them for their dedication .
The relationship between parents and their children is about love and dedication .
No one wants to see the scene of a broken family because of a carrier of a known genetic risk .
Therefore , I think a person with a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell their relatives .
Finally , the technology of gene testing is not very advanced yet .
Some probability of inaccurate testing also exists .
If the inaccurate testing was not noticed by the doctor , the family and the children may be unhappy and struggle for their whole lives .
Therefore I think a person with a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell their relatives .
Therefore , considering people 's privacy and the existence of incorrect testing , for the peace of the family , I support that a person with a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell their relatives .
A Carrier of a Known Genetic Risk Should be Obligated to Tell His or Her Relatives
More and more illnesses are being discovered to be related to genes thanks to the development of medical technology .
People will know whether they carry a disease in their genes after they have done a genetic test .
If there is no problem , that would be wonderful .
However , not everybody is so lucky that they can be sure they do not carry any genetic diseases .
Therefore , once people find that they are a carrier of a genetic disease , they should be responsible for telling their relatives , at least their immediate family members .
It may be awkward and embarrassing for a person to tell their relatives that they are a carrier of a known genetic risk .
But if they are all from one family and have the same ancestors , then of course they will have the same genes to some extent .
Therefore there is nothing to be shy for or be afraid of .
If the person tells their relatives that they carries a genetic disease , their relatives can go to hospital to check whether they also have the disease gene .
Then the relatives can prepare themselves to prevent the disease from occurring .
Also , they can prevent the disease passing to their offspring .
If the relatives carry the genetic disease , they can share the experience with them and offer some help . They will also teach them how to communicate with others about this issue .
If they get married , they must tell their partner that they carry a genetic disease .
Then they can have a healthy baby with the help of doctors .
Or else , if they conceal the genetic risk , they may have a unhealthy baby which may cause the death of the baby or the end of their marriage .
There is a story I watched on TV .
A couple did not have a child after their marriage for a long time , and their parents were anxious about that and asked them to go to hospital to check what the problem was .
After they came back from the hospital , the man told his parents that the problem was that he carried a genetic disease so that they could not have a baby in their lifetime .
The woman did not know the test results , but she overheard the talk and decided to divorce her husband .
After they got the divorce certificate , the man showed her the test report ; it said that the woman carried the genetic disease instead of the man .
At that time , the woman knew how much her husband loved her but she ruined her happiness .
Tears solved nothing .
People can not avoid carrying the genetic disease , which they were born with .
However , they can avoid the genetic disease being inherited to their children .
By telling their relatives that they may have a risk of carrying the genetic disease , they can make their family members bond closely , and also many risks and conflicts can be avoided .
Genetic testing has become a beneficial way to predict and protect each individual at risk for a disorder .
However , there arises a family-related ethical dilemma of whether it is right to tell a carrier 's family once the test has been conducted and the results are known .
I am most inclined to believe that their relatives have the right to know the result .
The answer is simply that everyone , especially our families , has the right to know the truth .
Though it is said that genetic testing involves emotional and social risks due to the test results , while the potential negative impacts of the risk still exist , the consequences will be significant if other members of their family do not know .
Then they are unable to have a suitable method to protect themselves and make emotional preparations .
Take Angeline Jolie for example ; she is famous but she still revealed the truth about her genetic testing of the development of her breast cancer risk .
Everything is not so bad if you know how to look on the bright side with hope .
People may feel angry , depressed , or even guilty about their results .
In some cases , a carrier can suffer tension within their family because the result is also related to the others ' risk somehow .
However , I believe that it is just a normal reaction to this situation .
In addition , though it can be possible in some cases that they and their family can undergo specific discrimination in employment and their social life , how can people face a more dramatic tragedy such as sickness or death if they can not even overcome this harsh situation ?
Life is hard but people can not blame it for being unfair .
It is just because you are not become strong enough to overcome the hard times .
Furthermore , living with a secret is not a good sensation . Especially if the situations of other relatives become worse , you should feel guilty and depressed .
Moreover , the truth can not be hidden forever but when it is revealed , the more shocking and upsetting it will be .
As a result , in the interests of the carriers and their relatives , talking about the genetic testing result is necessary .
Last but not least , though genetic testing is a personal matter , telling the result to your family can improve and develop understanding and sympathy of each other , as well as promoting awareness in taking care of everyone 's health .
That plays an important role in the possibility that relatives can overcome the discrimination of society and anxiety about the risks .
To put it in a nutshell , I believe that people should be obligated to tell their relatives about the genetic testing results for the good of their health .
It can be very difficult for them but necessary for the carriers and their family .
In addition , emotional preparations and the way you explain your genetic condition is also important so that you can convey the correct information to your family and relatives and , if necessary , guide them if they wish to conduct a similar genetic test .
The Impact Of Social Media
Social media plays a vital and important role in our lives today .
It is almost imposible for us to keep away from it .
I started getting involved in Facebook one year ago , when I had just arrived in Singapore .
And now I have over 500 friends on Facebook and have buried myself with hundreds of every day .
We know each others ' statuses , changes , and so on through social media .
For example , if we change our contact numbers , we will not send an SMS to each individual any more .
Instead , we will post a and tag our friends to inform them about kind of change .
And if you are not on it , you will be lost .
In certain aspects , social media has brought us quite a lot of convenience .
It is becoming even more convenient than talking through the phone since it is free .
We discuss everything we like and we have more personal space . Our friends also have more access to know what we are doing and what we like .
And also , we get a chance to talk to public people like popular stars and know their lives better .
In China , a lot of government organizations have open blogs to communicate with people , like firefighters , police stations and so on .
Social media allows them to explain about or inform people what is going on .
And actually lots of rescuing jobs are done with the help of social media , such as looking for people who are lost and so on .
With more convenient and communications , the relationship between government and the people can be improved greatly .
What is more , various cultures can be shown to us through social media .
We can get to know more news and culture through social media .
From this scope , social media has shortened the distance between us .
However , we get less chances and there is less importance on talking face to face since social media is so convenient , advanced and interesting .
And when we gather together more people find themselves with less topics to talk than before and choose to .
When we are far away , social media makes it as if we are in front of each other ; sometimes when we are by each others ' side , we seem to be further away .
This kind of feeling makes people 's relationships less stable , secure and reliable than before .
Besides , there are more people showing their pictures of delicious food or travelling experiences .
To some extent , this makes our lives more luxurious and .
For myself , I long to go to some places after I have seen the beautiful pictures taken by my friends .
Sometimes I can not even sleep well because of excitement .
Social media makes our lives go by so fast and leave us less time to think about our lives .
Social media is becoming more important and we need to think more to make it serve us better and better .
Interpersonal skills , like any other skills , require practice .
Besides that , these skills require time to develop and adapt .
The burgeoning of social media definitely has its uses ; but amongst all good things , it is better to have it in moderation .
Convenience and efficiency are two very important uses of social media .
While millions of users are connected at any one time , any information can be readily available for their perusal .
This improves the connectivity between the users .
For example , one is able to send notifications and other information , which we used to have only in hardcopy previously , over the web and the process takes seconds .
The recipient will then receive the information almost immediately depending on the quality of the network .
This covenience can be percieved as if it is almost in realtime .
Next , communications have also been greatly improved .
In the past , long-distance communication was done by one of many methods such as telegram , snail mail and poor-quality voice calls .
With the introduction of applications such as Skype and Facetime , any individual can phase out most of the older communication methods .
Aside from hearing their voice , a web camera can also be affixed to emulate a 'real ' interaction with expressions and gestures .
Communication would have taken a different turn without the easily forms of social media .
However , it is a good idea not to iuse social media intensively all the time .
Intimate interactions are greatly lacking in social media , particularly touch .
Having to meet and interact in person allows one to be closer to the recepient .
It involves a level of dynamic interaction which allows the motor , thinking and verbal cortices of the mind to coordinate .
This is unlike the use of social media , in which most of the interaction is done via thinking and typing .
As a result , one does not train the necessary parts of the brain required for proper interpersonal relations .
It is also entirely incorrect to fault social media alone for the lack of interpersonal skills .
Howard Garner studied the effect of multiple intelligences amongst people and stated that interpersonal intelligence is a skill of its own - some have it , some do not .
Howard Garner mentioned that the different intelligences can be charted , in accordance with utilising tests , and ranked .
Fundamentally , those who scored a lower ranking in interpersonal skills were more likely to stumble when this skill was needed .
Though social media need not necessarily be bad , it must be used accordingly - for work , family , and friends .
The types of use must also be taken note of - informing , interacting , discussion , and others .
The distance between the parties must also be looked at .
For people who are living very far from one another , intensive use social media is justified .
Those who live within the same community should at least meet up , and not use social media as their primary source of communcation with each other .
And at the same time , they will be improving their interpersonal skills through dynamic practises between individuals and realtime presence .
The inclusion of intimate presence and relative closeness could also bring a better rapport between those interacting .
Recently , the rise of social media has helped people to have much closer connections with each other . It is a more convenient and cheaper way to have contact , compared with face to face meetings .
In my opinion , social media websites such as Twitter and Facebook will not affect the chances for people to have face to face contact and thus will not negatively affect interpersonal skills .
On the other hand , it may even increase the chances of having face to face with people .
First , social media networks have a large user base , which helps to link people from different parts of the world .
In the days without social networks , people may not have the chance to get to know others from different countries or ones they have never met before .
The number of people that they know may only be limited to the people they meet in their daily life , like classmates and working partners .
Therefore , social networking creates more and more connections between people , and they may have a chance to chat with people they never knew before , and this helps to develop interpersonal skills as well .
Secondly , although social networking allows time for people to chat online but not face to face , they may still decide a time online to meet others face to face in their daily lives .
In this case , social networks help people to increase the frequency of communication .
For example , if social networks did not exist , business people would need to meet each other face to face and it would be time consuming , especially with business that is not so important , it would still take a lot time to travel which would be a waste .
However , social networking helps people to meet and chat much more easily , and they can even use video chat and create group chats to chat with multiple parties at the same time .
Nowadays , some companies even conduct online video interviews with their applicants as it saves time and money .
Social networks may also bring about some negative impacts for people .
The largest negative impact is that due to online networking , some people start to use and rely on the internet all the time .
They spend too much time using online social networks and thus do not have time to have daily interactions with people in their real life .
It not only affects their interpersonal skills but it is also bad for people 's health if they spend too much time on social media .
Secondly , social networks may leak certain personal information to the public , as the cyber environment is not perfect or safe . People may not be able to protect their privacy online effectively and sometimes , some people may use others ' personal information to deceive .
In conclusion , along with unsafe online environments , spending too much time on the internet may be a potential negative factor of using online social networks .
It provides people with more convenient communication environment and improves the frequency of meeting with each other .
It also helps people to develop their interpersonal skills through online chatting .
Overall , there are more benefits than drawbacks .
The world is becoming increasingly smaller because of all kinds of social networking websites , such as Facebook and Twitter .
We can even know what a friend who lives thousands of miles away eats for lunch though these forms of social media .
From some points of view , social networking really has a lot of advantages by letting us communicate with friends cheaply and more conveniently .
However , its disadvantages also can not be ignored when you consider it as a platform used to show off and as a stage for cyber crime .
Social networking sites provide us with many conveniences .
Without spending time with friends or talking with friends through the phone , we can learn about their latest news by scanning their web pages .
It can help us learn more about each other .
It can make people grow closer as well .
For example , if you find out that one of your friend 's favourite singers is Justin Bieber through Facebook , you can give them Justin Bieber 's new album or a concert ticket as a birthday gift .
It will be really sweet and you two will surely become closer .
In addition , social networking sites can help you keep in touch with friends who live very far away .
I met some Canadian friends in Egypt .
Without Facebook , we may have lost contact .
However , thanks to Facebook , I can still keep in touch with them and I know what they are doing recently as if we were living close to each other .
The disadvantages of social networks are quite undeniable .
Research shows that people will unconsciously hide their real thoughts when they say or post something that will be exposed to the public .
It means that one can not know another 's real thoughts and personalities by reading things that they put on social network sites .
It will make them quite upset when they communicate in real life .
In addition , with all those " nice " people around on the social network websites , one may neglect the people surrounding them and only communicate with friends on Facebook .
It is a common scene that two people sitting next to each other seldom talk with each other but just look at their cellphones .
This kind of behaviour is not good for people 's psychological health according to research .
Cyber communication is quite different to face to face communication and people who depend on cyber communication too much will not get used to real life communication .
In addition , cyber relationships can not always work in real life .
With no close relationships in real life , but only close cyber friends , one is more likely to feel lonely because the physiological need of human beings is to feel a bond with others with our five senses .
With the need for people to be the best among others , social networking sites have now become a place to show off .
Some people will post their expensive things or the overseas places of interest they have been to on social networks and get a feeling of satisfaction by doing so .
It is mental unhealthy and it may trigger people , especially teenagers , to become materialistic .
Last but not least , with all kinds of personal information on one 's social network page , it is convenient for criminals to make use of this information to commit a crime .
Above all , social networking sites are like a two sided coin and people can only take advantage of it by avoiding the possible disadvantages , such as by putting less personal information on their Facebook pages .
The modes of communication have been changing over the years , from letter writing to social networking .
This phenomenon is caused by rapidly changing technology , which has made communication faster than ever before .
Today , social media sites , such as Facebook and Twitter , are relatively common within contemporary society , and people can communicate with each other , online or offline , on these social networking platforms .
They can even make new friends with similar interests on these platforms , which will be able to closely connect almost everyone in many parts of the world .
However , critics may argue that the existence of social media sites has reduced physical human interactions among people as they will prefer to sit in front of a computer to going out and meeting new friends .
This essay will discuss both the benefits and downsides of using social media in contemporary society .
Nowadays , social media is able to disseminate information faster than any other media .
About 50 % of the people who have learnt about breaking news have learned about it from social media .
This is due to people spending comparatively more time on social networks than on reading newpapers .
Furthermore , with the current technology , smartphones are able to access social media sites which have been made easier for consumers to use .
Hence , social media has benefited the masses by equipping them with a powerful tool to disseminate information almost immediately to the people around them .
However , critics may argue that not all information or news disseminated is reliable .
There might be false information or hoaxes spreading around on social media .
For example , in 2012 , there were false rumors of fires , shootouts , and caravans of gunmen in a Mexico City suburb which had spread through Twitter and Facebook .
This had caused panic among the people , who had flooded the local police department with numerous phone calls , and this had resulted temporarily in the closure of schools .
The spreading of false information can be a potential psychological threat to everyone , given that social media can disseminate information at a relatively fast speed .
Nevertheless , there are cyber police who roam around these social networking platforms to prevent these hoaxes from spreading around .
But there will still be unreliable sources spreading false information on social media sites despite high security controlling almost every social networking movement .
Social media is able to improve relationships and create new friendships , provided that there is mutual trust and mutual understanding between both parties .
Many teenagers today claim that they are able to keep in touch with their friends through social media , regardless of their location .
In the past , people used to write letters to their friends and it would take a relatively long time to send the letter over .
Therefore , with the help of technology , people are able to catch up with each other conveniently .
Furthermore , it will be easier to find new friends who have simliar interests or hobbies .
However , in order for people to maintain their relationships as well as making new friends , it requires mutual trust and understanding between both parties .
It might not be accurate to judge the other party 's feelings over social media as one may cover up their emotions while on social media .
In addition , there are also chances for people to miscommunicate with each other as they can not sense the tone of the other party over social media platforms .
This will result in unnecessary conflicts between two parties because of miscommunication .
But , if there is trust and mutual understanding on social media , it will be ideal for people to improve relationships and make new friends .
In conclusion , social media in contemporary society is able to help one improve relationships and make new friends , as well as disseminate information efficiently to the masses .
However , there are risks of false information being spread and chances of miscommunication .
Nevertheless , the advantages of social media will benefit the masses if the negative aspects of it can be carefully taken care of .
All-in-all , social media is the product of rapid technological advancement and there is more to come in the future .
Advantages : Social media sites have greatly eased long distance communication and interaction due to its accessibility and convenience .
With a globalised and interconnected world today , Twitter and Facebook are now mainstream platforms for social interaction .
When we are just a touch away from any media/electronic device , one can easily interact and communicate with his friends without much hassle .
Thus , long distance relationships or friendships can be maintained and keeping in touch with your circle of friends has been made much easier .
With the sharing of personal photos , posting of statuses of one 's personal feelings or experiences and being able to reply to these posts allows human interaction to be engaging and to expand with ease .
Introverts or those who are shy in communicating with their friends are now able to do so in the form of typed words via social media platforms .
Thus , socialisation can occur seamlessly and effectively with the utilisation of such social media platforms . Meet-ups and appointments are no longer a barrier for humans to contact and communicate with one another , making human interaction possible at one 's own convenience .
Society will adapt to such a phenomenon , as physical interaction is transformed into cyber interaction .
With the frequent usage and reliance of social media and the Internet , a society that socialises through the internet will be more advanced and adapted to the highly connected world .
This will greatly help a society to progress rapidly .
Disadvantages : One of the main concerns of using social media platforms to communicate is credibility .
The certainty of what is being shared or expressed can not be proven physically as media limits this physical interaction , except when using a webcam to chat .
We can not be certain of the reliabilty or truth of some posts or information we receive through the Internet .
We may in actual fact be communicating with a hoax Facebook acccount of a cyber friend , which we assume to be real but in reality , it is a fake account .
Photos and information retrieved from their profile page may be fabricated to suit a certain personal agenda .
Thus , the lack of face-to-face human contact through social media restricts the actual interaction which can be expressed through the media .
Although emoticons can be used to show certain emotion , this differs from the real authentic emotions of your friends when you observe them through their body language and their facial expressions .
The danger of such socialisation is the unreliability of this communication due to the lack of physical interaction .
Furthermore , this lack of physical interaction has affected human interpersonal behaviour since communication is done through social media instead of meet-ups .
This lowers the experience of the human ability to interact with one another which can adversely shape one 's behaviour .
The lack of exposure to real life interaction with humans will not create the confidence and skills needed for one to interact seamlessly and effectively with others .
Therefore , for an effective and efficient society , there is a need to have a balance of both social media interaction and face-to-face human interaction amongst its people .
Nowadays , people can even use their phone to read news and everyone can be the first witnesses of what is happening in the world .
People use Twitter to follow the artist or celebrity they love , and Facebook to see their friends ' recent activity .
Nevertheless , they still can use the phone to place a normal call and leave a message to contact others .
Not only did the phone do the jobs for them , but also devices like personal computers , laptops , tablets , and many other devices which are able to connect to the internet .
It is obvious that internet saves people 's time and also connects people globally .
Several arguments have been made regarding whether social media actually has some inevitable disadvantages to people .
People can only use electical devices to access the internet .
Whenever they need to use social media , they have to use a phone or a computer .
Generally people need their eyes to look at the display screen of their phone or computer , and fingers to manipulate the corresponding device .
As a result , they will lose eye contact and hand gestures to express their feelings to people nearby them , which means they have lost the tools they need for face-to-face communication .
This can be easily seen in restaurants or cafes nowadays .
A family of four having dinner in a restaurant without any chatting , because they are holding and looking at their display screen with one hand when the other hand is holding a fork .
A group of friends having high tea in a caf  without chatting as well , because they do not know what to talk about , but pressing on their display screens .
Children nowadays do not know what neighbourhood games are and who lives beside them , all they know about is pressing icons on screens .
These are some concrete examples of how social media reduces face-to-face human contact .
When people get used to using social media to contact other people , what will happen is that their interpersonal communication skills will degrade and eventually be lost .
Firstly , they have lost the courage to meet strangers , and even the courage to talk .
Also , they will not have enough experience of communicating with people in person and are not trained in their conversation skills .
As a result , social media helps them do this but indirectly affects their interpersonal skills .
Social media does have some other advantages beside its general benefits to human beings .
First of all , people save money by using the internet to contact other people and read the news .
A father may be able to make a call to his daughter who is in another country via social media software instead of making an international call which costs a lot to a family on a normal salary .
He can even talk to his daughter face-to-face using a video call via the internet .
Secondly , people make friends all over the world and are able to update their friends about their recent activity easily .
A person who is going travel for months can easily tell all of his friends about his activity .
When one of his friends who is not aware of this fails to contact him via telephone calls , he might be able to get his whereabouts using social media .
These are the advantages that work most of the time .
In conclusion , social media benefits people in several ways but at the same time harms people .
People should avoid the misuse of social media and use it in the proper way .
With the aid of social media , people can bond globally , information flows rapidly , and humans live happily .
All of us are living in a technological society .
Have you ever wondered why we use these tools to connect ourselves with other people ?
It started with the invention of technology which has evolved tremendously over the past few decades .
In the past , we travelled by ship and now we can use airplanes to do so .
In the past , it took a few days to receive a message as we needed to post our letters , but now we can use e-mail , which stands for electronic mail , to send messages to our friends or even use our cellphone to send our messages .
From the example that I have mentioned earlier we can see that the distance between us and our loved ones is getting further apart .
This is because of the ease of technology such as airplanes , some of our friends might be going overseas to continue their studies , or even you may be away from your family to pursue your studies or even a career .
Thus , this makes Twitter and Facebook the mediums that we need .
Nevertheless , everything in life has positive and negative effects .
This is applicable to these social media sites .
The next two paragraphs will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our society .
With the help of social media tools , we can stay in contact and keep ourselves up to date with our family and friends even though we are away from them .
Social media sites such as Facebook allow us to share our pictures or even chat online with our parents while we are overseas .
These approaches help the parents to communicate with their children and know what kind of activities that their children do when they are overseas .
Social media is beneficial as it connects you and your loved ones even though you are separated by distance .
It might not be able to replace the joy that you have when you are with your family but it could help to reduce the sadness of being away from your family .
As I mentioned in the beginning , there are also disadvantages of social media tools .
One of them is that it reduces the level of concentration , especially among young people .
This is because it is everyone 's habit to check their Facebook page , as their friends will post something new every second .
Thus , you can see that some students will browse Facebook while attending lectures .
This means that the students are not concentrating when they are supposed to do so .
As a result , it could affect their lives and studies .
This will then lead to stress as these students will not be able to cope with their studies because they were distracted .
In my opinion , each individual has to take responsibility for their own lives by making the right decision .
There are advantages and disadvantages of using social media sites . However , in this case , striking a balance between social media and real life is the most important thing to do .
Nowadays , the use of the social media platforms is commonplace in our lives .
In an increasingly globalised world , such platforms even enhance and complicate the links between indivduals in the world .
Thanks to them , people can get to know one another online , without having to travel to meet up for business purposes or personal reasons .
However , it is also bringing some social changes whereby such virtual worlds are overtaking the real-life world , resulting in some negative impacts in individuals ' daily lives and becoming a large problem in society as a whole .
As people spend more and more time on social media sites , the importance of face-to-face human interaction has decresed .
As people feel more confident online , where they do not have to face each other in real-life on the spot , they feel more comfortable and thus prefer communicating online .
This results in a lack of interpersonal skills in an individual , especially young students , as they always have the option to turn their back on real life and go online .
This becomes a huge problem when they have no choice but to face things in real life .
As they are so used to having an online avatar , they may lose their self-identity in real life and may not realise how to interact with people in real-life .
Another problem with social media is that the benefits from investing such enormous time and energy is not reflected in something positive for the users .
The reason why it is so addictive is that the more that people get into social media , they seek attention from their friends .
However , such sparks of sudden attention are extremely short-lived and gone easily and thus do not add any value or meaning to the user 's life .
Also , according to research , it has been proven that users feel more sad after using Facebook , and this is because users unknowingly compare their lives with other people 's lives .
But seriously , most people only post the happiest moments in their lives .
Social media definitely has some other strong points that make the users stay , such as the links among people .
Indeed , I myself use Facebook just because of the friends that I want to keep in contact with .
However , friendships in such virtual worlds are so superficial that they are not so relevant to real life .
Also , as numerous profit-driven companies realize the hugh human traffic on such social media sites , they use it as a pond to fish for customers by uploading many advertisements .
Furthermore , this also possibly triggers privacy issues as Facebook allows some other profit-driven companies to have access to the users ' information .
As this happens , users are more and more susceptible to any possible frauds .
Social media sites are at their peak at the moment . However , I believe that when people realize that such sites are not making them better people in real-life , they will not indulge in it as much as they are now .
The users , soon , will realise that they do not need such social media sites to keep in contact with their friends , because if they really need somebody they will reach their friends no matter what .
We think we are all connected through all sorts of social media , but are we really connecting , or falling apart ?
Social media sites like Facebook and Twitter are created with the intention of connecting people from around the world .
The idea seems great , and nowadays most people , even the older generations , will have at least one social media platform like Facebook .
The parents are now the " friends " of their children , and they can now " follow " their children more closely and in real time .
People post their random thoughts or daily activities via Twitter and post different kinds of photos on Facebook frequently , to be connected with their so-called friends .
However , as we then tend to spend too much time on this and have significantly reduced face-to-face human contact , this eventually affects our interpersonal skills .
First and foremost , I would like to share the advantages of using this social media in my daily life .
As a student , I tend to meet lots of people from different backgrounds and in different settings .
We may meet only once but we exchange our contact numbers , as well as Facebook accounts , in order to keep in touch .
Unlike just keeping contact numbers that we may not even call , social media like Facebook is a great way for friends from different fields or even from different parts of the world to stay connected .
With a few clicks , we can check on a friend 's profile and read their updates .
On the other hand , we can update our profile by posting on our wall and our friends can read it on their newsfeed .
This allows friends that may not have the time for meet up to still stay connected in a way .
Not only that , new friends can also be easily met through these online platforms .
Hence , our social circle is indeed expanding .
Nonetheless , what seems to keep us connected can be the thing that breaks us apart .
The obvious disadvantage of using social media is that the time for face-to-face contact is reduced .
This subsequently leads to poor interpersonal skills that inhibit the growth of our real social circles .
For example , we tend send birthday wishes when Facebook prompts us " Today is someone 's birthday " .
In fact , we may have just forgotten our friend 's birthday .
We used to send greeting cards during festive seasons like Chinese New Year , and we felt so good to write one and of course to receive one with stamps on it .
Gone are those times , and now we do mass posts and the receiver may feel that there is less meaning in such online wishes .
As time passes , we may have more " friends " on our list , but the meaning of friends needs to be redefined .
In a nutshell , every sword has two edges .
The users of every social media site need to strike a balance between the real world versus the virtual one .
We should maximize the benefits of such platforms but be careful of its impacts on our actual lives .
Ultimately , the best way to enhance interpersonal skills is still through face-to-face contact , where social media sites are only tools to enhance it .
Nowadays , social media sites are commonly used in our society .
I believe 80 percent of people use social media sites .
These sites play the role of connecting people around the world .
They consist of the functions of connecting , sharing , interacting and advertising .
However , there are also some disadvantages of social media which are concerning for society .
Therefore , this article is written to explain the pros and cons of using social media in our daily lives .
First , with the function of social media sites that connects people , everyone is able to interact and communicate with friends and family , or even strangers , without any constraints of place and time .
Through social media sites , we can chat with our friends who stay in Europe and New Zealand .
There are over a thousand miles between Singapore and these two places .
However , we are able to chat with our friends without travelling to the countries .
It saves a lot of money and time , and strengthens our relationships even though we stay in different places around the world .
Besides that , companies can also use the convenience of social media sites , such as Facebook chat or Skype , to facilitate meeting with parties in project from around the world .
Substantial costs are saved without the tiring travel from one point to another .
With the huge amount of savings , this capital can be utilized in other sectors , which benefits the company more and boosts the company 's profit .
However , there are two sides to every story .
Some scholars argue that the use of social media reduces face-to-face connections between humans .
Since ancient times , humans have interacted with others face to face .
Without facial expressions , it is easy to misunderstand the intention of speakers .
This is why facial expressions are one of the most important elements in social learning .
In addition , " social media sites will affect writing skills " , is the point of view of society .
Based on the statistic report , the more that writing skills will be reduced with the more time is spent in the social media sites .
I believe most of us have the experience of suddenly forgetting how to write a word that we should know .
Auto-correction software is so effective when using electronic devices that we did not realize the importance of writing .
Writing is an essential skill for a person to express their own feelings and opinions .
'Privacy ' is a word that has become popular in the past few decades .
Humans have their own right to privacy .
I believe that most of us agree with these terms .
However , there has been news about the social media sites leaking users ' information to companies for a cash reimbursement .
Everything we type on social media sites is recorded to the server and then transferred to companies for spying and advertising .
Although it looks like it is free and like it is your own space to speak and do anything you want in , you are actually wrong .
You are not only controlled by the government 's laws but also spied on by the the government .
In conclusion , there are two sides to every story .
It is our responsibility to identify the advantages and disadvantages of social media sites .
To utilize the technology well , we should make an effort to not only balance the pros and cons but also to lengthen the pros and shorten the cons .
Thus , the new technology will be able to bring a prosperous future for us and the next generation .
With advanced technology becoming widespread , social media sites are becoming more and more popular .
Getting connected on social media such as Facebook and Twitter has become a major trend as well as a daily habit nowadays .
With this situation , both the advantages and disadvantages of using social media apply to our daily life .
On one side , it is obvious that many advantages have been brought to our lives .
Social media provides people with the opportunity to get in contact with each other at any time and everywhere .
Whether we are at home or at school , at work or on holiday , we are able to communicate and interact with our friends .
Even when people are thousands of miles apart , social media makes it possible to have interactions by writing comments .
When our phones are accidentally broken , we can also use social media to get in contact with our friends .
Some people who are trying to talk in public can also actively take part in group chats via social media .
Besides , we can make more friends in such interactions when our friends also bring their friends in .
Therefore , the popularity of social media sites has made it more convenient for people to update friends ' statuses and make contact with friends more frequently .
On the other hand , we need to rethink the influences brought by social media .
There are still many disadvantages of using social media .
Firstly , interpersonal skills may be affected by the reduction in face-to-face human contact .
Because social media brings convenience to people lives , people are more and more willing to use social media for chatting instead of face-to-face chatting , which has a time and place requirement .
People who are not good at public chatting may be more reluctant to talk to people , and their interpersonal skills can never be improved in this situation .
Secondly , people 's addiction may unavoidably , to some degree , exacerbate social alienation , and this kind of alienation causes some social media users to suffer from an over-dependence on virtual social networking .
More and more networking has been transferred to the internet from real life .
There is a potential danger for teenagers who are growing and experiencing social changes to get hurt .
Thirdly , a lot of updates about a luxurious standard of living , as well as other show-off situations , may make people 's daily lives more and more grandiloquent , which is not an accurate trend for social growth .
Lastly , it is easy for people to waste a lot of time using social media .
Again , there is a chance of them suffering from social media addiction and their study and work may be greatly affected .
Since we can see both advantages and disadvantages to using social media , and we can not deny the huge benefits that have been brought to us . This major trend of using social media may last for a long time .
Therefore , every time when we use social media , we should take both sides into consideration and try to avoid being affected by the disadvantages .
Only by absorbing the essence and discarding the dregs can we make better use of social media .
In a sophisticated era like today , experts keep producing inventions that are meant to make life easier .
Geographical and transportation borders are not a problem anymore because communication and information technologies have been continuously enhanced .
Telephone may be perceived as the biggest innovation created ever the first time that Graham Bell introduced it .
However , since the internet was invented , telephone started to give way to social media sites .
Many advantages are given to the users .
Let us take an example from Facebook and Twitter , two of the most famous social media sites .
Through Facebook , people are able to maintain relationships with their old acquaintances .
This benefit can not be obtained through telephone or mail because people 's numbers and addresses may change from time to time whereas on Facebook , people can keep in contact with old friends just by using a name and photo , for example , as an identifier .
Facebook is like a combination of a messaging and chatting service , personal profile , media sharing , and other entertainment add-ons ( i.e .
social games ) which allow users to communicate with remote people , and also to update and express themselves at the same time .
Twitter has a more simplified function compared to Facebook , and has a greater benefit if used as information sharing media .
Twitter only allows users to post updates that are limited to short sentences in order to spread the word fast , so that only highlighted messages are delivered .
For Facebook , a comprehensive way of sharing is offered since multiple photos and videos can be uploaded , long notes can be published , and even documents and data can be shared through Facebook nowadays .
These advantages also come in handy as most social media sites are accessible through mobile applications on our smartphones .
Despite the luxury that is offered by social media , there are also harmful side effects which people may not realize beforehand .
Research shows that the frequency of face-to-face meetings among people that are addicted to social media sites has been decreasing .
As a consequence , their interpersonal skills are affected .
People can think while typing and prepare what they want to say , but in face-to-face communication every word that comes out of your mouth may be not well arranged and is a reflection of your personality .
This skill requires practice and can not be done completely through social media .
There is a situation where a family is having a dinner together in a restaurant but everybody is busy with their own gadgets , posting pictures on Facebook , updating statuses on Twitter , or even chatting with friends .
Social media serves a purpose to connect people despite their geographical boundaries but it does not mean that the surrounding people should be neglected as a payoff .
This is related to the interpersonal skills that were mentioned before , and that can decrease qualitatively if we are used to facing a gadget , and not facing a human being .
Another disadvantage that affects other people is that by only showing selected parts of our lives , we build a " false image " in public .
We tend to only share our happy moments on social media .
Because of this , other people start to think that our lives are full of happiness with no problems at all .
Other people are then influenced by us and try to do the same .
As a result , people think of themselves lowly and it may lead to depression and mental disorders .
It also reduces our sympathy .
This is a serious social problem and affects a lot of people .
As explained above , modern and sophisticated technology does not always give advantages .
There are a lot of disadvantages that people may not realize .
It is up to people 's discretion and comprehension to decide which side they want to take .
So we should never forget to think of and calculate the benefits and costs of every decision that we make .
Nowadays , the advancement of technology has improved the life of many people a lot .
In most countries , there has been an emergence of social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter .
Many people think that social media sites have benefits for the communication between people , while some others argue that there are several negative impacts for society .
One of the advantages which is created by those social media sites is that they can connect us more closely than before .
In past decades , when the social media sites were not yet fully developed , people connected with others who lived far away by using a telephone , or even a letter .
However , calling a person by telephone and writing a person a letter requires some money , and sending a letter to a person who lives far away , especially in a village , takes much time .
The appearance of social media sites caused those problems to be solved .
People connecting through the social media sites need spend no money on communication , and it also takes only a few seconds for the message to be sent .
Therefore , this advantage of social media sites saves money and time , and also provides convenience for many people .
Moreover , this also provides an alternative way for people to contact a person who they have not seen for a very long time , such as their friends from primary school and secondary school .
As we graduate from school , we will probably lose contact with some of our friends .
Some of them may have changed their phone numbers and addresses , and we will not be able to find them by telephone or a letter .
If telephones and letters are the only way to contact them , we would probably not be able to find them .
Facebook and Twitter can serve as an alternative route to make connections between us and our old friends .
Hence , social media sites serve as a platform for the connection .
Everything that comes with benefits will also have its disadvantages .
On the other hand , social media sites also bring some negative impacts for people and society .
The advancement of these social media sites makes people rely on them so much that some of them prefer using those sites to contact each other rather than talking to each other face to face .
Many people argue that this is the most serious problem brought by social media sites .
The use of social media sites indirectly causes a reduction in face-to-face human communication in real life , which will in turn cause the loss of interpersonal skills for many people .
As we all know , interpersonal skills are essential for us to communicate with each other and to present our views and ideas .
The loss of interpersonal skills results in the inability of people to present their ideas well .
As a result , they their ability to compete with each other in the society will gradually decrease .
In conclusion , social media sites can have both positive and negative consequences for people and society .
As a part of this modern society , we should learn to distinguish between good and bad impacts brought about by the advancement of technology , and also learn to avoid the cons and maximize the benefits of those sites .
With the advancement of technology in recent years , the need to keep in touch with people and the latest news has become a tremendous demand .
Some famous examples would be social media sites like Twitter and Facebook .
With an increasing number of more than billion users from all over the world , social media sites have demonstrated clearly their success in playing an important part of our lives .
However , there are arguments that social media brings a reduction in face-to-face human contact , which in turn affects interpersonal skills .
Let us examine the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily lives and in society .
First and foremost , all social media sites are free .
All users need is an internet connection and an email account so that everyone can have a Facebook or Twitter ID to start their journey in social media life .
Secondly , it helps people to keep in touch with one another .
Finding old friends through Facebook , for example , is easier than asking people about it in real life .
Social media helps to lessen the hassle of geographical distance and brings people closer .
Thirdly , social media sites keep us up to date on the latest news and updates from almost everywhere in the world , all just a click away on the refresh button .
Last but not least , social media sites also link people together by allowing us to create our own groups , pages , or sites to share our hobbies , interests and studies in particular subjects .
Hence , it is undeniable that these sites play an important role in our global inter-connected world .
However , social media also has its second side of negative impacts on humans .
Undeniably , it becomes more addicting when we spend more time socialising and interacting virtually .
We spend the majority of our time on sites like Facebook and Twitter , and it affects our daily work productivity and performance .
In the corporate world , employers often block social media networks to prevent employees from spending their office time on their personal leisure instead of concentrating on their work .
Using text-messaging language as an informal way of communicating on social media networks also has a bad impact on us in the long term .
The more time we spend on these sites , the less time we spend on face-to-face interactions with one another .
Hence it lessens valuable interaction between humans and the time we spend away from the computer screen or our mobile phones .
In addition , there are also some false reports of fake IDs occurring on both social media sites , where people use a fake ID to insult or harass someone , like the case of Heather Chua which occurred recently on Facebook .
These malicious comments often go viral and it creates a strong negative effect on the real user in real life , which might lead to an unwillingness to interact with others in real life by the victim .
In conclusion , everything has two sides and it depends on how we exploit it .
With the current booming technology , it is true that people have become more technology-savvy and they want to spend more time interacting with each other through social media sites . However , it does not mean that we should neglect face-to-face human interaction as it plays an even more important aspect in our lives .
As more and more social websites such as Twitter , Facebook and Weibo which have become ubiquitous , seamless and imperative in our lives , people may worry about the younger generations having problems with face-to-face communication skills .
However , I believe that the benefits brought by these online chatrooms tremendously outweigh their repercussions .
Social media enables us to explore the world from far away without paying for expensive airplane tickets and taking a one-week holiday .
The convenience is beyond description .
With a small smart phone or a computer at school , at work , or at home , we can easily make friends worldwide with a 'click ' and get to know about their lives by having conversations with them , and reading their blogs , photos and statuses .
Compared to face-to-face interaction , online conversation makes it easier for strangers to open their mouths to each other .
Since some of the information has already been revealed on their home page , it is also easier to find some common topics to talk about .
Moreover , people usually like to talk openly about their real feelings online with their masks from reality taken off .
It has been indicated in a report done by Boston University in 2012 that 80 % of information posted online is true while a person may 3 out of 10 times in real life .
This shows that a Facebook friend may know more about you than a close friend who does not have a Facebook account .
This is because we are acting out who we are in reality while we have no reason to do that in the online virtual world .
Although sometimes this genuine sharing of information may be inappropriate or even harmful , such as a prevalent use of vulgarity and cruel comments , we can minimize these repercussions through strict regulations of online content .
Another advantage of social media is that it aids the spread of democracy .
People around the world can easily share their thoughts about their governments .
That eliminates the incomplete information disadvantage for some remote rural regions where people are less aware of what is actually happening around them .
One of the examples is the 2012 riots which happened in Egypt and Zambia .
The idea of fighting for democracy was passed from Egyptians to people in Zambia quickly through the use of social media .
However , as the government controls most of the media .
These social media may be a tool in their campaign to manipulate the thoughts of the public .
For example , in the 2012 general election in Singapore , Dr Tan Chee Keong made use of Facebook to spread his campaign videos to the public .
But despite this , social media is still a much fairer and more transparent online platform for the public to share ideas , compared to other traditional media .
Intensive use of social media does reduce the time people spend on face-to-face communication .
It is commonly seen in food courts and restaurants that a group of people sitting together around a table will each have a cell phone in their hands .
They are too busy with their virtual friends and some of them will neglect the feelings of their real-life friends .
In this case , I have to say that to err is human .
What we can do is to educate the public about the importance of the friends by their sides and teach them to manage their time well .
In conclusion , the use of social media has more advantages than disadvantages in our daily lives .
What we can do is to cautiously manage our time spent online and manage the words we use online .
With regulation by the government and relevant authorities , the virtual world would be a better world .
Social media sites ' role in connecting people around the world is undeniable .
Thanks to social media , communication among people all over the world is possible and can be done with ease .
Apart from the ease of communication despite the distance , many other advantages , such as the sharing of knowledge and trade , can be done through social media as well .
Nevertheless , with those advantages , some disadvantages may appear , such as a reduction in face-to-face human contact , which affects interpersonal skills , and privacy issues , as well as some frauds that can be done through social media .
Twitter , Facebook and Skype are some social media sites which enable us to keep in touch with our friends and family who are in other cities or countries .
Through those sites we are able to talk to them , to know what their activities are and who their friends are , etc. On the surface there is no doubt that these sites help us to have better relationships with our relatives despite the distance .
The sharing of information can be done faster through social media as well , which is why nowadays many news publishers make their own social media accounts . For example , Channel News Asia has a Twitter account and will update its followers with news headlines .
This shows how easily news and information can be shared through social media .
Furthermore , since many teenagers and young adults are fans of social media , this information can reach them easily without them needing to watch or listen to news reports .
Due to the popularity of social media , many people start their businesses via these sites .
More and more advertisements can be found on Facebook , whether it is our friends who are selling their products or professional brands selling their products online , and we get to buy and contact the sellers through those sites , which can be considered an advantage for us , the buyers .
However , is it the same when we keep in touch with someone virtually compared to when we meet them in person ?
I do think there is difference and I believe many of us will agree .
When we write or communicate virtually , we can hide our true feelings and many not be ourselves since we do not want the other party to judge us .
Other than that , sometimes the message of one party can not be conveyed properly to the other one since the communication is done through written language , and thus the 'tone ' of the message when it is sent and when it is received may be different .
Many people are very brave in telling people about their opinions online but in real life some of them can be very shy and not outspoken at all .
This will lead to bad inter-personal skills as well as problems with trust .
Nowadays we can not really trust new people who we know from social media since we will never know whether they are even 'real' .
Some people fake their identities on media sites so that they can get to know more people , and some may even cheat others .
In addition , privacy issues have become more common nowadays since some people do not realize that they may actually be sharing some information that they would not be willing to share in the first place .
Therefore , while social media sites undoubtedly have benefits in our lives , we should consider its drawbacks and thus use it wisely so that we can gain more of its benefits , and it disadvantages us in the smallest way possible .
It is a common scene that almost everyone on public transportation is looking at their phone or wearing a pair of headphones in this modern society today .
Not just one but many developed , and developing , countries have the same picture .
Some say that it is a necessary step in human evolution .
Social media sites like Twitter and Facebook are popular among people in order for them to connect to others even those from different countries .
It also has many negative effects , such as the loss of face-to-face communication skills , which are important in their workplace .
This essay will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily lives .
One of the significant advantages of using a popular social media site is that people can reach each other easily , even without having been in contact for a long time .
In this fast paced and competitive world , people may not be able to keep in touch with others .
With the help of social media sites , people are able to upload their new interests and funny videos on to it and they can be updated with new information about their friends .
Personally I am studying overseas , and my busy life of studying keeps me away from contacting my old friends .
Using a common social media site with my friends to help me to know what their statuses are nowadays .
And I am able to easily find a common topic when I contact them .
Many Malaysian cross the sea to work in Singapore .
Many of them are busy with work and separated from their children .
One of the managers in my workplace is in the same situation .
After my manager taught her mother how to use Facebook , she was able to upload video clips of her grandchild .
Therefore my manager would not miss the moments of her daughter 's growth .
Social media sites are also a very useful tool for people to start new friendships or relationships .
People get connected or grow closer when they have the same preferences .
It is easier for people to approach others when they know this information .
Students can exchange their experiences with studying even they are in different countries .
People are able to share their culture or pretty photos online , and therefore others can share the joy with them .
Thus I believe that social media sites are a useful tool to help people get to know each other better .
However , social media sites are a double-sided sword , as it also brings some negative effects into our daily lives .
One of the disadvantages that many people are concerned about is that people lose interest in face-to-face communication .
Many people like to use language to protect themselves , and lose confidence when they talk to each other .
Although not everyone is good at public relationships even without the existence of social media sites , we can not deny that it does affect some people in their ability to have good interpersonal skills .
In conclusion , shadow always exists where there is light .
We should take the advantages of the technology we create and try to avoid the negative effects .
Social media sites are supposed be a very useful and convenient tool to use , and bring people closer in this globalised world .
The use of social media has largely influenced our ways of communicating with one another .
Online friends became real life friends and real life friends communicate with one another online .
Social media has changed our ways of exchanging information and our interpersonal relationships profoundly .
There are advantages and disadvantages to this change .
Social media has reshaped our way of communication .
In real life , we communicate with one another as equal participants .
We share ideas , stories , and forge friendship based on mutual respect .
However , communication on social media is largely based on " broadcasting and listening " .
When we use Facebook and post pictures and statuses .
We are actively " presenting " fa  ades of our lives in front of others .
We tend to post pictures with the best looks , and statuses that are funny .
We broadcast these facades of ourselves to others .
The images we choose to present are carefully considered .
The audience is not some specific person , but everyone we might know , or even the entire world .
There is an element of seeking attention rather than expressing one 's true opinion on social networks .
On the other hand , the viewers are not the listeners .
They are just scrolling down pages and pages of pictures and statuses and see one which they might think is funny .
It is not the broadcasters themselves they care about , but the content .
This type of communication does not help to forge interpersonal relationships .
In real life , establishing friendships requires an all-round understanding in one another and caring for one another .
The latter requires face to face interaction where we can show our emotions to each other .
One can not truly understand a person by only stalking their Facebook page where they carefully choose what to present .
One can not truly show their emotions to another by texting some = ) signs .
This broadcasting and viewing model is not good for forging relationships .
However , it is good for sharing information .
On social media , everyone is a broadcaster and a viewer .
With my social network account , I seldom read newspapers or go to news websites any more because I can easily read them from my friends ' statuses .
If I am interested in politics , I can just follow some politics newspapers or public figures .
I get news about sales , clothing , and cosmetics from my friends .
If some of my friends have horrible taste in clothes and they posts about them often , I can simply block them .
Information gets circulated .
The most popular information gets circulated the most so I can seldom miss it .
Social networking plays a role in providing and also filtering information .
This saves a lot of time for me from reading newspapers and watching TV .
Personally I feel more at ease on social media .
From the above two points of view I think social media could forge more friendships based on interests .
With the help of social media , I have become real life friends with people from online forums with whom I share the same interest .
I also have discovered some of my friends ' interests which they have in common with me so that talking to one another is much more about life , study , friends , etc .
Our communication does not focus on how we feel , that is to say each other , but on whatever is interesting , or the content .
In this case , interpersonal skills are not as important because our goal is not to impress anybody , but to get the information that we are both interested in .
In conclusion , I think social media has reshaped interpersonal relationships from a more human-based friendship that requires sharing and caring between friends , to a more information-based friendship that requires mutual interests .
There are advantages and disadvantages to it , however , but whether it is good or bad we are still not sure .
It is just different .
Advantages and disadvantages of using social media in daily life
People who are living in the modern world really can not live without social media sites like Twitter and Facebook .
Almost all students and young adults have a Facebook or Twitter account .
It is true that social media makes people able to connect to one another more conveniently .
However , it seems that , especially for some , sharing some parts of their lives , such as videos and photos on social media sites has become truly necessary .
An extremely interesting and ironic phenomenon was discovered where a group of friends met and sat around one table , but none of them were really chatting to one another .
Instead , they were all more interested in posting pictures of this " cheerful " meeting on their social media sites .
Therefore , there is a need to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of social media .
Social media enables people from different parts of the world to communicate with one another .
People used to write letters and send postcards to keep in touch with people who lived far away from them in the past .
It could take a few days or weeks for them to receive the messages .
Nowadays , what people need to do is just sit in front of the computer in their own rooms .
And people on the other side will only take a second to receive the message .
Distance and time are no longer a problem , which is convenient especially when instant communication is needed .
However , when people become more and more addicted to this convenience and fail to communicate with the people who are close to them , their face-to-face interpersonal skills are lost .
Social media provides people with a way of talking and chatting which can never be considered a way of communication .
When people chat on those media sites , there is no eye contact , no emotional delivery and even the expressions are typed in by using some combinations of punctuation .
For more convenience , sentences are shortened to simply three or four words , such as lol ( which means laugh out loud ) and " asap " ( which means as soon as possible ) .
People indeed go to great lengths to make their words as short as they can .
Then , once they are communicating with people face to face , expressing themselves appropriately becomes a big problem .
Social media also provides people with a huge amount of information about people and things that they are interested in .
For example , on Twitter , it is exciting to follow people that you admire , like famous movie and tv stars , business men and entrepreneurs .
It makes people feel extremely close to their idols ' lives and works .
Updates on news that people care about can be easily obtained when you refresh your social media sites on your smart phones and laptops at any time .
However , after one has registered to social media sites which are not reliable , all the information you have filled in can be used as a weapon against you in the future .
Furthermore , not everyone on social media sites is honest .
Their profile picture may not be the person that the user says they really are .
The reason might just be that they want to " decorate " their face .
But there is a possibility that the person on the other side is deceiving you in order to obtain your information .
No pledge of authenticity protects people 's information and privacy that is shared on social media sites .
To sum up , social media has advantages and disadvantages in people 's daily lives .
It shortens the distance between people from all over the world and makes instant communication possible .
And it becomes more convenient to obtain and update information by using social media .
On the contrary , social media makes people lose their ability to communicate effectively in their real lives and makes people risk exposing their privacy to those whose identity can not be verified on social media sites .
How does social media help change our lives ?
With the development of technology , social media has taken on a more and more significant role throughout the whole world .
No one in the world can stop using it every day to express their feelings or ideas and a to of other things which helps their friends to understand their lives better .
However , it has also raised concerns about whether it will bring us more benefits or a human crisis .
Although it helps to connect us with our friends wherever we are , at the same time it reduces the chance for us to talk to our friends face to face , which may affect our interpersonal skills .
Thus , whether there are more advantages or disadvantages becomes a tough question for every human being .
Many people say that they will support social media since it really helps them to have a closer view of what their friends are doig in other parts of the world .
This is especially true for people who are overseas .
To them , social media is the only resource they can use to know everything that is happening in their home country , and the only way they can show their lives to their loved ones as well .
What is more , these days social media plays an important role in spreading information .
Nowadays , people can easily put their information on their Facebook account and wait for a response from others who are in different parts of the world , which brings us a huge amount of convenience .
It is especially significant for young teenagers since they would rather go to these sites to see the news and find out what is happening in the world than read a newspaper every day .
However , there are also a great number of people who are against this technology .
They worry a lot about the bad effects on teenagers who are still developing .
They have pointed out that social media actually reduces the chances for us to talk to the people around us face to face .
The more we care about Facebook , the less time we will have to spend with our friends .
Nowadays , it is quite common to see at some party that people would prefer to look at their phones and read all the posts on Facebook if they feel bored .
It makes people worry , since if all teenagers continue to use social media frequently , they will decrease their ability to talk to people .
They feel that it will become difficult for them to find any topics of discussion with other people .
Personally , I strongly agree that social media brings more disadvantages than advantages to us .
Although it is really useful when we need to use it to let other people know we live a good life , it wastes a lot of our time as well .
Thinking in another way , if we took the time we spend on those sites , we could already finish a book or do other , more meaningful , things .
We should keep in mind that there are still ways for us to contact our family and friends .
Things will be bad if we do not know how to use social media wisely , no matter whether it is actually good or not .
As a result , it is important for people to know that we need to be cautious about the time we spend on these social media sites .
As stated above , I strongly believe that if we can use social media wisely rather than abusing it , we will all live better lives .
The advantages and disadvantages of social media
Nowadays , as technology is becoming increasingly advanced , more and more social media sites are showing up in our daily lives .
You can see people playing on Facebook and Twitter through their smart phones or iPads on buses or on trains .
Some may say that the appearance of this modern media will reduce the chances for people to communicate face to face .
This essay will illustrate the pros and cons of using social media in modern society .
First of all , social media can make it more convenient for people to make friends and contact each other .
Years ago , when these modern products were not yet popular , the way for people to communicate or contact people far away was still restricted to making phone calls , sending emails or writing letters .
Some will take long time and some are not efficient enough for people to get their response quickly .
However , social media solves these problems well .
People can contact their friends on the internet and get their replies very fast .
Communication is also not limited to words .
People can express themselves through pictures or emotions .
People can also get to know their friends ' state of mind and moods by looking at their posts online .
Moreover , people can become aware of what is going on in social situations and see comments online and share their opinions on these websites .
Social media makes people 's lives much more colorful and provide a lot of fun .
However , social media may do some harm to people 's lives .
It will make people spend more time chatting on the internet rather than communicating face to face , such that their interpersonal skills will be badly affected .
Some people spend a lot of time on it and forget their real lives .
Actually , I have seen that some people are very funny and interesting when I am chatting with them online .
However , they behave quite boringly when I talk to them in real life .
Teenagers are developing their interpersonal skills and social skills while they are growing up .
If they spend too much time on these social media sites , it may cause some problems for their mental development .
They may feel uncomfortable when they communicate with people face to face .
Some may spend less and less time with their families and not know how to express themselves .
Moreover , some bad values on the websites will affect teenagers and confuse them .
Some may even do something wrong .
In conclusion , the rise of social media sites is a double edged sword .
It can make our lives simpler .
People can promote their friendships and relationships through social media .
It can also make people forget to communicate with their family and friends in real life and anegatively affect their interpersonal skills .
But overall , the advantages far outweigh the disadvantages .
So we need to make best use of social media and make it a fun way of adding some excitement when life is boring .
And try to bypass the shortcomings .
We should remember to send greetings to our friends and family frequently .
Nowadays , with the advancement of technology , it is easy to communicate wherever you are .
The appearance of social media sites closely connects people .
People can know their friends ' recent looks and the interesting things happening to people just by checking their Facebook or other social media sites .
We can not deny that social media sites truly make sure that old friends do not lose contact and the ability to communicate with you even you are in a different country .
However , social media sites reduce face-to-face communication , which truly affects interpersonal skills .
There are two advantages and two disadvantages of using social media in people 's daily lives .
Firstly , social media sites can connect people with their friends and parents .
By typing words and posting pictures , people can express the emotions that they would otherwise be too shy to express .
For example , on Mother 's Day , people who are too shy to say " I love you " to their mothers can type it on their mother 's Facebook page .
Then their mother will also experience the emotion and feel loved .
On the other hand , when a teenager is studying in a foreign country , the internet is the only way that they can communicate with their parents and friends .
Therefore , the social media is truly good for people .
Secondly , social media sites not only connect people with their friends closely .
People can also learn much information about celebrities on Twitter and Facebook such as Obama and Bill Gates and get first-hand information about them .
They can learn how these people succeed and they can also have the chance to talk with them and hear these famous people 's ' thoughts by using social media .
On the other hand , with the help of social media , some homeless people or someone who needs money to cure their disease can get help from the world quickly because once one person knows the information , they will share it on their " friends area " , and then many people will know about it and spread the information to people who can offer help .
On the other hand , there are also problems with the use of social media .
Firstly , when people rely on social media to communicate with their friends and parents , they will become accustomed to communicating by typing and not talking .
People will even prefer talk to their friends and meet their friends online and will gradually reject face-to-face communication .
Therefore , social media truly limits interpersonal skills so that people lose the chance and the ability to practice talking and strengthening the relationships between them and their friends .
Secondly , without communicating in real life , people will lose the ability to see the difference between true and false .
There are many people in social media with a beautiful image and good content on their pages , but in real life they may not have a job and live poorly .
Teenagers may believe these people and easily be cheated and lose money even when they think they are safe .
Therefore , social media is not safe , which is bad for a teenager 's future development .
All in all , the existence of social media helps people a lot in many ways .
However , there are some disadvantages which will affect people to some degree .
Advantages and Disadvantages of Using Social Media in Our Daily life and Society .
Nowadays , with the development of technology and society , social media has become more popular and even more important in our daily lives .
We communicate with others using social media , such as Twitter , Facebook and microblogging more and more frequently .
There is no need for people to leave their homes to interact with others , they can chat online , share pictures , tell others what they have done or tell funny stories .
It seems that people build good relationships with others via social media , but problems appear .
People do not know how to talk with others face to face , especially strangers .
We need to talk about the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in your daily life and in society .
As for the advantages , there are two aspects : it is more convenient to contact others , and it is easier to learn about others .
One advantage is that it is more convenient to contact others by social media .
In the old days , if someone wanted to tell some important news to someone else , who lived far away , he needed to write letters and it would waste time .
The long distances and travelling times made spreading messages very difficult at that time .
Therefore , people may not have made contact with faraway friends and relatives unless there was something important .
However , people now can contact anyone anywhere in the world who can use a computer , at any time , and there is no time delay for messages .
The other advantage is that it is easier to learn about others via social media .
If there was no social media , it would be difficult for people to learn about a stranger .
They may collect information about that person by asking his friends , colleagues or family members .
And the information collected may not be intact and true .
Unlike today , where with the help with social media , people can easily get the information they want just by searching online , and learn about what that person does everyday and at what time .
As for the disadvantages of social media in our daily lives , these include wasting time , causing illnesses related to sitting for a long time in front of a computer , the quick spread of rumor and fake news , and most importantly , making people lose the ability to talk to others face to face confidently .
It is strange that people sit around the table but all look at their phones and do not talk to each other .
If there is a joke on their Facebook page , they may talk to others in this way , " hi , look , how ridiculous this is " , then they would laugh together .
No matter it is a party , a dinner or just a simple get-together , there are always some people who will bow their heads and play with their phones even when their family and friends are in front of them .
In conclusion , there are both advantages and disadvantages of using social media in daily life .
People should enjoy the advantages of social media while being aware of the disadvantages of it , and try their best to avoid the disadvantages from happening to them and their friends and family .
Today world is considered to be in an era of social media sites like Facebook and Twitter , which are attractive for connecting people around the world .
However , some people worry that social networking can affect interpersonal skills as it reduces face-to-face human contact .
The advantages and disadvantages of using such social media in society are elaborated on as follows .
Nobody can deny social media 's advantages in the benefits it provides in connecting people regardless of nationality , race , culture and language .
Social media is a trending channel and a suitable means of communication .
Firstly , social media brings convenience to the world .
It has erased the boundaries of distance and time .
There are no more worries about the time it takes to deliver letters and packages .
Nowadays , thanks to the help of social media , with just one click , you can contact your family and friends wherever you want .
You can share photos , videos and every meaningful experience of your life .
More importantly , it is cheap and easy to use social media .
Secondly , social media networking opens the door of opportunity for people due to its great benefit of making connections .
A lot of fresh graduates can find jobs thanks to Facebook and Twitter .
Young people can widen their relationships , meet new friends and learn wonderful things in many parts of the world .
In the area of business , social media is a good tool to help develop and advertise products and services .
On the other hand , social media also has disadvantages which have created worries for society recently and made it a controversial phenomenon .
More and more young people tend to live in a social media bubble for most of their time and have less face-to-face human contact , which can affect interpersonal skills and relationships in their social lives .
First and foremost , we should realize that the social media world is not trustworthy or real .
Everyone can easily make up the personality and characteristics they want .
They can become anyone .
Though social media does create relationships , relationships and friendships are only firm and real if people have gone through experiences and communication in face-to-face interactions .
There is a story of a girl who lived in a social media world every night for eight years .
In a chat room , she formed a close relationship with eight people .
She talked with them every night , trusted them and shared her life with them .
Then eventually , she discovered that the eight people became one as he was using eight different identities to chat with her at the same time .
Furthermore , the convenience of social media is also its weakness .
A lot of people use their real personal information on social media sites , which can lead to crimes and deception .
People can use the information to deceive family and friends and banks to do bad things such as blackmailing , ATM theft and so on .
Last but not least , social media does affect human interpersonal skills when people increase the time they spend on social media sites and reject chances to be exposed to daily social activities and interact with other people .
Recent research has shown that the more time people spend on social media sites , the less ambitious they become .
As a result , if the situation keeps going on in this unexpected trend , it will have a bad effect on younger generations .
To put it in a nutshell , everything has its pros and cons .
So does social media networking .
It not only is convenient and beneficial for connecting people and developing businesses but it can also damage people 's relationships and interpersonal skills .
Social media is only beneficial as long as we know how to use it in the correct and suitable way with a combination of both social media sites and daily life interactions to develop people 's potential to the fullest .
