Keeping the Secret of Genetic Testing
What is genetic risk ?
Genetic risk refers mostly to your chance of inheriting a disorder or disease .
People get certain diseases because of genetic changes .
How much a genetic change tells us about your chance of developing a disorder is not always clear .
If your genetic results indicate that you have gene changes associated with an increased risk of heart disease , it does not mean that you will definitely develop heart disease .
The opposite is also true .
If your genetic results show that you do not have changes associated with an increased risk of heart disease , it is still possible that you will develop heart disease .
However , for some rare diseases , people who have certain gene changes are guaranteed to develop the disease .
When we are diagnosed with a genetic disease , are we supposed to disclose this result to our relatives ?
My answer is no .
On the one hand , we do not want this potential danger to cause frightening affects in our families ' lives .
When people around us know that we have a disease , their attitudes can easily change , whether by caring for us too much or by keeping away from us .
And neither are what we want since most of us just want to live as normal people .
Surrounded by such concerns , it is very likely that we could be distracted by worrying about these problems .
It is a concern that would be with us throughout our lives , because we would never know when the ''potential bomb' ' might explode .
On the other hand , if there are ways to help us control or cure the disease , we could go through these processes with the support of the whole family .
For example , if exercising is helpful for the potential family disease , we could always look for more opportunities for the family to exercise .
And we could keep track of all of our family members ' health conditions .
At the same time , we would be prepared for finding out when other members get this disease .
Here I want to share Forest 's view on this issue .
Although some people feel that an individual who is found to carry a dominant gene for Huntington 's disease has an ethical obligation to disclose that fact to his or her siblings , there is currently no legal requirement to do so .
In fact , requiring someone to reveal his or her own genetic risk to family members , who are therefore also at risk , is considered by many to be ethically dubious .

Nothing is absolutely right or wrong .
If a genetic test is very accurate and it is necessary to get treatment and to tell others , it is OK to disclose the result .
Above all , life is more important than secrets .
Genetic risk does carry consequences and should not be taken lightly within the family circle .
Afterall , what affects one family member may or may not affect another , even though the family members have a common genetic make-up , passed on by either of the parents .
In cases where an individual has found out about a genetic disorder , disclosing this or not to his or her relatives is solely a matter of preference within the individual 's moral system .
The issue of the right to know or not is highly debatable . Although it is a genetic risk , one can not be entirely sure because the genetic information could possibly result from the families of either parent - his maternal and paternal uncles , aunts or cousins .
This also means that as soon a person is made aware of his or her genetic profile , he or she concurrently has knowledge about others .
This knowledge may be relevant to them .
An example that may serve as an illustration is breast cancer .
It is hereditary .
Does one who suffered from this disease keep it a secret or inform their relatives ?
It is also ones duty to ensure that he or she undergo periodic health checks themselves .
Sometimes some family structures and cultural beliefs can influence the pattern of communication .
It depends on whom the genetic risk was discovered from - if the son or daughter has it for example , the parents who know about this would decide who is told and who takes precedence in being 'allowed ' to tell .
For example , within a family , regardless of who had first received genetic information , parents were seen as having the primary responsibility to pass on information to any offspring , even adults at risk .
In addition , a woman testing positive for BRCA1 would be expected to allow her brother or sister to disclose such information to a niece or nephew rather than do it herself , although this may be further complicated by an individual 's response to risk information that they do not want to know .
Hence , there were also tensions if participants felt that they could neither pass on information to relatives who needed to know ( such as nieces and nephews ) nor persuade those with authority ( the parents ) to do so .
The notion of authority also extended 'vertically' .
For example , a grandmother may have more authority to pass on information than an aunt , even when she is not at genetic risk herself while the aunt is .
From a practitioner 's perspective these findings are important because if the constructs of family and kinship are a social construct they may not be in line with geneticists ' views of family relationships , or about which blood ( or non-blood ) relatives should be informed and by whom ; this is also likely to be dependent on the cultural and ethnic context .
Ultimately , one must bring the attention of those who may benefit to such information and assist those at risk to make considered decisions about disclosure .
Whose duty it is to inform at risk relatives or not greatly depends on their personal morals and the nature of how 'direct ' the risk is to them .
People with close blood relationships generally carry some similar genes .
In this case , if one of the family members or close relatives is found to carry a genetic risk , it is better for the patient to tell his/her close relatives about the issue and let others know about the risk so that his/her family members are able to perform some daily exercises to prevent the potential disease or go to hospital and check for the corresponding markers .
In my opinion , although the revelation of carrying a genetic risk involves the issue of self privacy , it is necessary for the carrier to be obligated to tell his or her relatives in order for them to prevent the potential disease .
I agree with this statement to a large extent .
Focussing on the negative side of announcing a genetic risk first .
Large numbers of patients with a genetic risk would want to keep it a secret as the genetic risk may indicate a high chance of carrying a disease .
Especially for young people who are not married , if he/she is known to have some genetic risk , there may be a chance that his/her child could carry the same disease , but not for certain .
Therefore , to keep the information secret from his/her future spouse could help the relationship .
Secondly , annoucing the potential risk could cause family members to be scared of this issue , although the chances would not be that high , people could still be afraid that they could have a disease in the future and thus go to hospital to have additional checks done or take medicine in order to prevent the disease developing , creating unnecessary costs for the family .
Furthermore , announcing a genetic risk could affect their relationship with their relatives as sometimes others may decide to stay away from the carrier so that they have less chance of getting the potential disease .
On the other hand , if the genetic risk is kept secret , although it may benefit the carrier to a certain extent and help to keep their privacy , it has much larger negative impacts on the family members and relatives .
Firstly , in the case of marrige , people should be honest and tell his/her spouse that they may carry a genetic risk that may affect their offspring .
It is better to let the other party know the fact then than after the baby is born and a type of genetic disease is found .
It is better for both parties to be honest .
Secondly , genetic diseases have a close link between the inherited gene and daily habits .
For example , if a carrier is told that he/she has a risk of having diabetes .
In this case , the carrier can eat less candies and chocolates to prevent the intake of too much sugar . At the same time , if the carrier tells their relatives this information , it will be useful for them to know that they may have diabetes in the future because of related genes and they can perform the same exercise to intake less sugar to prevent the disease .
Otherwise , if the other parties did not know , they may end up having diabetes in the future without any prevention .
In conclusion , we could say that the benefits of revealing a genetic risk to the carrier 's relatives outweighs the costs .
Therefore , it would be better for the carrier to be obligated to tell the information to their relatives , in order to let them know and prevent the potential disease through daily habits .
Among all kinds of different diseases , a large number of them are caused by genetic changes .
Genetic disorders may or may not be hereditary diseases and it is sometimes hard to find out if one has this kind of disease .
It is a long term discussion whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives that his or her disease is caused by a gene .
From a legal viewpoint , the answer is no but from an ethical one , the answer should be yes .
We ca n't make a law to force a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell his or her relatives about their genetic problem .
It is immoral and impractical .
Firstly , whether someone has a disease is his or her own business .
Privacy protection is one of ones human rights .
If a law requires someone to tell others his or her secrets especially when the one is not willing to do so .
It is againt his or her human rights and it is against the law 's spirit .
The law 's spirit also includes fairness .
What is the basic difference between genetic disorders and other disorders ?
It is unfair to make a law only concerning genetic disorders .
In addition , it is impractical to make such a law .
A good law should be clear and easy to enforce .
However , there are many problems with the enforcement of requiring a carrier to tell his or her relatives the cause of his or her disease .
Firstly , what is the range of the relatives ?
For example , does the carrier only need to tell his or her direct relatives like parents , brothers and sisters or does he also need to tell relatives like his grandmother 's sister 's son 's daughter 's nephew ?
If you say they only need to tell direct relatives , it is against the fairness of the law .
Other relatives may have the same possibilities of having such a disease .
How can a law made by government exempt such a group of people from preparing to face their potential disease ?
However , from an ethical point of view ,
the carrier himself or herself should have a feeling of responsibility to tell his or her relatives about their genetic disorder .
By doing this , they may be able to save the lives of their relatives .
This is because a carrier with a gene may not necessarily have its genetic disease , if they have a healthy lifestyle before the age that the gene 's function becomes stronger .
A typical example is hereditary hypertension .
Hypertension can be caused by genetic problems which make it harder to digest the fat and salt in blood , which can cause hypertension .
People usually get this kind of hypertesion after they become an adult .
However , if they already know that they have a gene that may give them a higher chance of getting hypertention .
They can decide to regularly eat less salt and fat and thus avoid hypertension .
In a nutshell , our society ca n't force faulty gene carriers to tell his or her relatives about it but he or she should be willing to tell his or her relatives about his or her genetic problem .
By doing so , less of his or her loved ones will suffer from the genetic problem .
In this age of rapid technological advancement , a lot of medical breakthroughs are made possible .
Genetic testing is now possible and available at ones discretion .
It is able to detect illnesses or diseases and even a child 's parentage .
However , it has become a controversial issue as it becomes a dilemma for a carrier of a known genetic risk whether to inform his or her relatives .
If the knowledge of the genetic risk was to be shared with the family or relatives , it might be possible that they have it in their blood , which they can take necessary precautions to prevent .
But , if it is a terminal disease , most of the relatives will be disheartened upon finding out about it .
Therefore , some carriers will decide to keep it a secret .
This essay will discuss whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should tell his or her relatives or not .
Some say that the genetic risk that is found in a person should be kept secret because it is considered personal information which should be kept confidential .
Most patients will be depressed after realising his or her condition .
If one has a genetic disease after the test , he or she might not wish to inform the relatives as they might upset their extended family .
Some may wish to keep it to themselves and hope that they will not bring in any distress to their family .
Furthermore , some may wish not to become a burden to anyone as medical care is relatively costly .
Hence , some see it as being considerate to keep the genetic risk of getting the disease confidential .
On the other hand , others may think that it would be considerate to tell their relatives because the latter will have a higher chance of having the same genetic risk .
Hence , they will be able to seek help from medical specialists to find a cure or to take some measures to reduce the risk of getting the disease .
Nevertheless , it depends on the type of genetic disease , given the context of current medical technology .
For example , breast cancer is a genetic disease and it can be cured if it is caught at an early stage .
Hence , with knowledge of having a genetic risk , the relatives of this genetic carrier can do a medical check-up , which might save them by catching it at an earlier stage .
In conclusion , it would be considerate to reveal the risk of getting the same genetic disease to the relatives .
Although there might be a lot of challenges along the way in seeking medical attention , such as financial issues , everyone should have the right to know their family 's inherented medical conditions .
However , some think that it might be better to be ignorant of it and continue leading a happy life .
In addition , some may think that even knowing about having a risk of a disease will just add to their misery as there is nothing that they can do about it .
All-in-all , it depends on the individual and also the nature of the disease , but he or she should be obligated to inform their relatives if there is a possibility of curing or preventing it .
Genetic testing is a personal decision , with the knowledge that there is a possiblity that one could be a carrier or not .
Those who are born into a family with a history of genetic disease should be allowed to undergo genetic testing , even if there is no risk at all .
Early pre-examination is healthy as it will remove any unwanted doubts and affect the psychological state of those who are affected .
For a genetic risk carrier , there should be a choice given with regards to informing his/her relatives .
They should not be forced or obliged to do so , as it may negatively and drastically affect the emotions of the genetic risk carrier .
With regards to this choice being given , there must be some rules to regulate the exercise of personal freedom in decision making .
If the genetic risk carrier is a minor or a child , then most likely the decision of informing the relatives should be made with the consideration of the patient 's parents or legal guardians .
Such patients are still emotionally volatile and they may be unaware of the consequences of such a genetic disorder due to their young age .
Furthermore , the act of informing others without the consent of their parents or the patient themself could harm the psychological state of the affected family .
Thus , much thought needs to be given to the immediate family as it could cause a number of unwanted events for the patient or the family members themselves .
Some family may feel hurt with regards to their family pride or reputation , on discovering the news of a genetic disorder running in their family .
However , there is a sense of responsibility to inform their relatives since it is a genetic disorder .
There might be a chance that the genetic disorder could also affect their relatives and any other families within the same family tree .
The importance of informing relatives of a genetic disease is vital as it may help to raise awareness and prevention of the genetic disorder .
Also , this information will help their relatives to make informed decisions and to similarly undergo genetic testing to find out the outcome .
Thus , having the knowledge that a genetic disorder is benign would be beneficial to their emotional state .
And if the results turn out to be otherwise , then the family can be prepared emotionally and psychologically for the future outcome and aid them in making upcoming decisions .
In addition , the genetic risk carrier would be showered with moral and emotional support from their relatives if it is made known to them .
Having support from relatives is vital as they assure the genetic risk carrier that he/she is not alone in facing this illness and it will certainly provide a morale boost as the whole family will share a common sentiment with regards to the future of the genetic disorder which could be inherited by anyone in the family .
Therefore , the decision to inform relatives of a genetic disorder will be dependent on the situation and background of the affected family , with the freedom of choice given to them in making the decision of informing others .
A person with a disorder , whether a mental or physical disorder , is always keen to tell his or her family .
When it comes to genetic issues , it is not so simple anymore .
Genetic disorder inheritance affects generation after generation , but not all of the offspring will show the relevant symptoms .
Sometimes a family with a potential genetic disorder risk may not be able to detect the potential harm inside their bodies as none of their members show any observable disorder symptoms .
As a result , when one of the members happens to feel uncomfortable or unusual , he or she should find out whether the disorder in his or her body is a genetic risk or not .
Afterward , the carrier will face a serious ethical issue , which is whether to reveal the problem to his or her relatives or not .
If the disorder symptoms appear in a child the parent will certainly be informed by the medics , then the whole family will be aware of their genetic condition .
However , if the carrier is an adult , who has the right to choose whether to inform his or her relatives about the risk , that is more complex .
One may think that if the carrier is a caring person who loves his or her family more than himself , there is no doubt that he or she will tell his or her family about the issue .
That is true and of course it is the obligation of a family member to protect and take care of their family .
Alternatively , if a child of the family knows that he has the risk of being a genetic risk carrier , and the risk might also be inherited by his child in the future , for his whole life he will have a dilemma .
And of course , he or she will think of not having any children after getting married , and the same thought will occur to their cousins as well .
As a result , the family line stops the moment the adult carrier announces his issue .
In China , the older generation with a traditional cultural background , will always think of having more children as well as grandchildren , to make the family more lively and stronger .
The reason behind this is that after WWII the population of China decreased dramatically and so the government encouraged the people to have more children .
During that period , if a family member showed genetic disorder symptoms , he certainly would have an ethical dilemma .
The medical treatment technology during that time would not have been advanced enough to completely cure him .
He would have to choose whether to protect his family or make his family more prosperous with a potential genetic risk .
And so , he would have chosen not to undergo genetic disorder testing and let the truth be known forever .
This kind of ethical issue can not be judged by other people as they will not understand the position and duty of the carrier in the family .
In conclusion , people should think carefully of what the consequences of telling their relatives of his or her generic disorder are .
It is obligatory for a carrier to inform his relatives , but it is also obligatory for a family member to strengthen the family .
Regardless , if the disorder is rarely fatal , or it does not cause any inconvenience to the carrier , revealing the truth is always the right thing to do .
In my opinion , the carrier should tell his or her relatives about it .
One of the reasons is because , as a carrier , she or he needs psychological support to go through this situation .
It is hard for an individual to deal with the issue on their own .
By telling his or her family , other than for support , they could possibly help them to get alternative solutions to the problem that they are facing then .
Other than that , I believe that the stong bond we have with our family would be the biggest pillar of support to the carrier .
Furthermore , as it is a genetic problem , it would be better for the carrier to inform his or her family as other family members might experience the same problem .
By making sure that they are aware of this genetic problem , they could have a full check-up for themselves and it would be best if they can even prevent it from happening to themselves .
I find that it is important to inform people especially if it is contagious and the carrier could prevent the disease from spreading out to society .
For every action there are always pros and cons .
I believe that some of the carriers will choose not to reveal their disease to their family members as they do not want to make their family members worry and feel uncomfortable or even be ostracized by them .
Furthermore , as it could incur spending a lot of money on treatment , the carrier might not want to be a burden to their family .
I can understand the feelings of the carrier .
She or he does not want to be the source of unhappiness in the family .
However , we can never know whether negative effects will happen when the carrier decides to tell his or her family of his or her condition .
In conclusion , personally I feel that it is better for the carrier to inform their family members about the issue .
The carrier should be honest about his or her feelings and I feel that it is the right of the family members to know what is going on in his or her life .
If anything wrong happened in the carrier 's life , without informing her family members , it could become a huge regret for them if she leaves without them knowing about it .
On top of that , it is better to think about solutions for her problem with the family members as there are more heads to think about it rather than thinking about it alone and struggling on their own .
In the end , I believe that the support , whether psychological or even monetary , from their family could help the carrier to fight against the genetic disease .
It is true that there are lots of cancer patients who were given a second chance to live as a normal person due to having strong psychological support from their loved ones .
In my opinion , as long as we keep our minds healthy and strong we can fight any disease , as they come to us when we are fragile and weak .
As techonology has been advancing , it has reached a stage where the progress has triggered some ethical dilemmas in relation to the use of the techonology .
Genetic testing has been made possible - it has become easy to tell if one is a carrier of a known genetic risk through genetic testing .
If used for a good reason , it can prevent unnecessary unhappiness . However , it could also make a situation worse by revealing who the carrier is in the family .
The question proposed is whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives . I think that the carrier should not be obligated to do so because I believe that he or she has right to not say .
Firstly , genetic testing is not something that is compulsory .
Of course , some people may do it to make their futures slightly happier . However , the carrier , before the test , can choose not to go for the test and simply live with unknown and accept the situation .
If he chooses to live with the uncertainty that the gene holds and is willing to accept it , he could do that , something that was 'normal ' to everyone in the past as genetic testing was not possible .
It could even be better for him or her this way .
Some people might say that it is a form of prevention of giving birth to disabled children and making them suffer in reallife .
I personally think this is the right reason to go through genetic testing , so that a family who can not afford to have a disabled child does not have to give birth to their child and make the entire family suffer .
However , I believe that the carrier has the right not to be obligated to tell anyone but has the responsibility to take action to prevent any ethical dilemmas .
If the result revealed something that the carrier can not accept then it would have been better not to know the truth .
I believe that even the carrier has the right not to know the truth .
After realizing that he or she is a carrier , the emotional damage would be hard to bear .
It could possibly cause a problem in a family and could create more unhappiness in the family .
Overall , I believe that it entirely depends on the carrier to share the facts and face them with relatives but he has no obligation to tell .
In fact , I strongly think that the carrier should weigh both the positive and negative consequences of taking the genetic testing and take appropriate action for the results .
The emotional depression that the carrier might develop and the sense of guilt can be more than expected and could be a burden to them for the rest of their life .
On the other hand , without knowing about any genetic disorder and accepting that fact , the family will stay positive and work together to overcome the disability .
I think the family will stay psychologically healthy as it is , without having any emotional stress .
It has been debated for years whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to inform his or her relatives .
Any individual at risk of a disorder has the right to undergo genetic testing , but whether the results should be revealed to others , especially close family or relatives , is a topic that is worth discussing .
This is an issue that needs to be addressed as a family-related ethical dilemma is involved .
In this essay , a few arguments will be laid out in support of the view that any carrier of that known genetic risk should tell his or her relatives .
When we were born , we were surrounded by our family and relatives , with them welcoming us to this new world .
We were crying hard but we were not alone , it is our family and relatives that raise us .
Hence , they should be the people to be grateful for and the people we would like to share joy with .
However , in the case of a health issue or of a serious disorder , there may seem no point in sharing it but this involves more than just the sharing of bad news .
One definitely has the right not to disclose his or her health issues to anyone , but it is also ones responsibility to inform their family and close relatives .
As health issues are related to genetic risk , with the emphasis on " genetic " which highlights the risk of passing down the disorder to the next generation .
Therefore , I would agree that it is obligatory for a carrier of a genetic risk to tell his or her relatives in order to avoid any family-related ethical dilemma that could be raised in the future .
However , one may argue that it is still up to the individual to disclose a health issue or to bear it him/herself , it is certainly helpful to share with close relatives , for a proper discussion to find solutions .
By doing so , one will feel less stressed in facing such a disorder risk .
Relatives will certainly be supportive and show more care towards the carrier of a known genetic risk .
By informing them , the carrier is never alone in fighting the battle of a disorder risk .
On top of that , as the genetic risk may pass down to the next generation , it involves more than just one family .
Therefore , I would support the obligation of telling the relatives of both parties when one is about to get married and planning to have children .
This would avoid the rise of further family-related ethical dilemmas .
There are more intangible advantages that could support the position of informing the relatives once the results are known after the test is conducted .
In conclusion , in order to avoid family-related ethical dilemmas , it is best for any carrier of a known genetic risk to inform his/her relatives .
The benefits of doing so outweigh its disadvantages .
More support must be provided through other means to give better direction when one is standing at such a junction whether they should inform their relatives .
The decision to undergo genetic testing can only be made by the individual at risk of a disorder .
This is the common law in our society .
However , it leads to a new problem - " should a carrier of a known genetic risk be obligated to tell his or her relatives ?
" This issue has been discussed for a long time .
However , there is still a diversity of point of views among people .
Thus , we are going to identify the advantages and disadvantages of the issue which is : " should or should not " .
Firstly , I believe most of us will agree with the sentence below : " I would be anxious about my family if he or she told me that he or she was a carrier of a known genetic risk " .
Frequently , the intention of the carriers is to not tell their families and to continue their life without the anxiety of their family .
It is obvious that it is better for one person to be worried than many .
However , many of the carriers are not strong enough to overcome the challenges themselves .
With the family 's support , there will be more energy to fight against the demon .
The demon is not to be easily defeated and it requires much energy and psychological support .
Family gives you the courage and support which you can not muster by yourself .
That is the most essential element in overcoming the challenges .
Besides that , the risk of the known genetic fault is so serious that it can not be described .
The seriousness can be beyond our imagination .
Being bed-ridden for their remaining life , or even dying immediately , these are consequences which we can not imagine .
Families are our dearest connection in life .
Without their concern and support , it is hard to survive this time .
They play an important role in our lives which can not be substituted .
A known genetic risk can also critically affect the next generation .
Therefore , it is our responsibility to tell our relatives to prevent the occurrence of undesired consequences .
Generally , the clinic or hospital will not tell the carrier 's family without the agreement of the carrier .
It is the ethical duty of staff in hospital to keep the secrets of any patients .
We can not blame them as they are liable for the undesired consequences .
However , the hospital could provide a councillor to advise the carrier about the action that can be taken .
Therefore , these kinds of circumstances will not happen again and again .
It is a method that benefits both parties which is a win-win situation .
In conclusion , a carrier of a known genetic risk is encouraged to tell his or her relatives about the known genetic risk .
However , there may be some special cases that are hard to predict .
Thus , advice from hospitals plays an important role in this .
The carrier is responsible for balancing his or her own interests and the benefits to the family and even society .
It is a hard decision to make but made in the most appropriate way , it will create great circumstances for the carrier and their family in the future .
Sensible of the possibility of having genetic disorders , many individuals have made the decision to undergo genetic testing .
With the consequence that the results will be known once the tests are done , each individual that is diagnosed as a genetic risk carrier faces an ethical problem : should they warn their relatives about the risking of also being a genetic risk carrier ?
Or should they choose to keep silent until the next carrier is diagnosed ?
From my point of view , a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives , for the following reasons .
First of all , from the perspective of human rights , a genetic risk carrier should not be obligated to tell the truth to others .
The diagnosis can be regarded as a kind of privacy of the carriers .
They may not want this truth to influence their lives or may want to keep it a secret and not have others know about it .
This is reasonable since the exposure of the truth of being a carrier may cause them to be discriminated against or pitied by others which are not positive effects forced upon their lives .
Secondly , the relatives of the carrier can also choose to do genetic testing regardless of the diagnosis of the carrier .
When people want to check whether they are genetic risk carriers , they can go and approach a doctor to consult about it .
If they do not want to think too much about it and view it as a problem , they can just ignore the possibility .
However , if a diagnosed carrier is obligated to tell his or her relatives , the relatives will be forced to know their higher chances of being genetic risk carriers .
This affects their own freedom as they have to accept the truth which may make their lives miserable .
Many people may argue that mandating the obligation may help more people who are the relatives of the carriers and save their lives with a larger success because of the early diagnosis .
However , this is not exactly true when other factors , including psychological influence and social influence , are taken into consideration .
If one such relative is told that he or she may have higher risk of getting sick , he or she may be scared of the unknown , partners , spouses and colleagues may choose to leave , and many other situations may result which means that the relative 's life may be ruined .
On the other hand , as stated above , a person who wants to know and is prepared to face the result can choose to do the genetic testing individually .
In a nutshell , a carrier of a known genetic risk should have their own right to decide whether to tell their relatives or not .
This should be accepted from the point of human rights , freedom of choice for their relatives as well as many other social reasons .
Otherwise , making it an obligation will restrict the choice of carriers and bring a lot of confusion to their relatives .
For a carrier of genetic disorder to know the fact that he or she is a carrier causes more of a dilemma than getting the disorder .
I agree that a carrier of a known genetic risk is obligated to tell his or her relatives .
There are four reasons why people do n't have to be shy and should share their problems regarding a genetic disorder .
Firstly , the carrier and his or her family can take precautions , physically , by taking actions to reduce the chance of it being inherited by offspring , and mentally , in case the action fails to prevent it being inherited .
Many syndromes such as Down Syndrome and Taylor Syndrome can be prevented if the mother takes the proper medication and does n't consume harmful goods during the pregnancy .
This information may not be known by the mother if she does n't tell her relatives about her condition .
The more people ( relatives ) that know her problem , more information is provided .
If all efforts have been made but the children still suffer from the syndrome then the family have to accept this fact and do whatever they can to create a good environment for their child 's growth .
This is not the parents ' fault because there is still a chance of the gene being inherited .
So , they also have to prepare mentally .
Secondly , genetic diseases are costly for treatment and medication .
Albinism is one of the examples .
The people with albinism have sensitive skin and need regular treatment .
Unlike people with a high proportion of skin pigment , people with albinism are prone to sunburn and other skin diseases .
If they do n't treat their body well , such as by using sunglasses or wearing sunscreen outdoors , chances are good that they will have skin problems that may also lead to cancer .
Once you suffer from cancer , medication is very expensive .
To prevent the bigger problem from happening , it takes a lot of effort to take care of your body .
If the carrier does n't tell his or her relatives , it may be too late to get their support and prepare financially .
Thirdly , some diseases are not noticeable and may lead to serious health problems .
One of these diseases is sickle cell trait .
Usually people are not aware if they carry the sickle cell gene and this may lead to circulatory problem such as blood clotting .
If the parents know that one of them is a carrier and disclose the information to their relatives then they can have their children undergo genetic testing and do n't need to be shy of it because it is for the sake of their children 's health .
Fourthly , it is important for the parents to give a mental boost to their children with a genetic disorder .
When their children become teenagers , a lot of social problems may arise .
People and friends often mock you because of your conditions .
A strong mental condition and conviction must be built from within and from the closest loved ones .
If not their family then who else will be willing to do that ?
It is not a heavy job for the family if they have prepared their minds first by disclosing the information of the probability that their children may suffer from the genetic disorder .
In this modern world , technology has improved a lot compared with the last century .
Particularly in the medical field , there is a great improvement in many treatments for many formally incurable diseases , and genetic testing is one of the methods which are used to diagnose an individual at risk for a genetic disorder .
The medical authorities claim that only the individual who is at risk of a genetic disorder can make the decision to undergo genetic testing .
However , once a test has been conducted and the results are known , a family-related ethical dilemma is born .
The question is whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should tell his or her relatives .
In my opinion , the carrier of a known genetic risk has to tell his or her relatives about it .
This is because his or her relatives have the right to know about this .
As many people realize , a genetic disorder can be related to the carrier 's relatives , that is , when one of the family members is at risk of a genetic disorder that means that other family members also have almost an equal risk of having it , so this problem should be treated seriously by the family .
Every family member has their human right to know what is going on with them .
If they do not even know that they are at risk for a genetic disorder , how can this fufill their right ?
For instance , imagine John is informed by his doctor that he is at risk of a genetic disorder but he does not tell his sibling , James about this .
Although telling James about this is horrible to some extent , he should know what is likely to affect him .
This might be beneficial to his future if he is aware of the risk of having this disorder .
The next point is that telling relatives can raise their awareness of having the same genetic disorder , preventing certain genetic disorders from affecting themselves .
Genetic disorders are innate , but the great improvement of medical treatment makes it possible for humans to prevent the disorder occurring or to reduce the negative effects of the disorder on themselves .
In addition , doctors usually quote a statement , " Prevention is better than a cure " ; this suggests that preventing a disorder from happening has far more advantages than curing it .
Awareness of having a genetic disorder risk may help in diagnosing a genetic disorder in a person , and therefore , this may make the prevention of a certain disorder possible .
For example , hypertension is partially due to genetic factors , but environmental factors also play an important role .
People who are aware of having such a disorder can prevent the disorder from happening by adopting a healthy lifestyle , including having a balanced diet and having at least 30 minutes of exercise every day .
To sum up , a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
This is their human right to know about it , and this may also save their lives by preventing the disorder from happening .
Together with the development of technology over recent decades , medical advancements have increased exponentially and further enhancements are still constantly upgrading . Empowered with advanced medical knowledge , doctors are able to diagnose and perform genetic testing for patients to help them prevent diseases and take necessary steps to protect their life . However , once a test has been conducted and the results are known , the question of disclosing the results to his or her relatives becomes a challenging issue for both the patient and the doctor . In my opinion , I feel a strong urge to support the obligation of patients to inform their relatives .
As it is a genetic risk , the patient 's next-of-kin might have a high chance of carrying the risk , hence informing their relatives is important so that necessary precautions can be taken before unforeseen circumstances might occur . For example , if you are the only child in a family and , unfortunately , you are suffering from a genetic disease with a genetic trait that might be passed on to the next generation if you have a child , hence by making your family members aware of the situation , it might lessen family stress and suffering from forcing you to settle down and have children . However , social ethical issues like discrimination and privacy are the biggest concerns and potential barriers to enforcing patients ' or doctors ' disclosure of information to patients ' relatives . It challenges the principles of confidentiality and privacy principles . Currently , under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ( HIPAA ) in the United States , there is no legal obligation to disclose information to relatives , it is up to the patient to disclose the information to their family members . Early disclosure to family members brings a positive reaction and prevention , as in the case of Angelina Jolie who chose to disclose her risk and underwent treatment to reduce the risk of breast cancer significantly to under five percent . I can still recall her reason for disclosing her own story was that she did not want to live under the shadow of cancer .
However , there are still people against revealing this private information . As in the case of Alzheimer patients , it is up to the patient to disclose information . However , research has shown that doctors have tried to interpret who , how and to whom Alzheimer 's patients will disclose it to to minimise the potential negative impact to family members ( DementiaToday , 2012 ) . There are associations who provide help to Alzheimer 's patients such as Alzheimer 's Association ( Alzheimer 's Association,1980 ) .However there are still thousands of genetic risk carriers out there that might not be receiving the help and support they need to receive . Immediate understanding and support from family members is the utmost help that patients need in their difficult time .
In conclusion , the state should already have passed a legal bill to provide information to doctors regarding to what extent a doctor should opt to reveal information to relatives about a genetic disease and in which situations it is the patient 's decision . In addition , the state could also encourage the creation of assistance schemes to provide necessary help to needy patients to encourage them to open up for the benefit of themselves and their family members . Although it may face challenges due to social ethical issues , in the long run , with appropriate encouragement and aid from the government , more individuals would have a different point of view and take appropriate measurements to protect their own health and their loved ones ' .
Nowadays , research in the field of genetics has gone further and further due to a high-velocity technological advancement .
Not long ago , the human genome project sponsored by several large multinational corporations ( MNCs ) was started .
In comparison , in the field of genetic testing , which enables people to find out about the risk of having a possible genetic disorder , as the technology is already very mature , an even more interesting topic arises .
While most people agree that each individual has his own right to decide whether to undergo a genetic test or not , they have different stands on whether it is the patient 's responsibility or freedom to share the result with his or her relatives .
In my opinion , patients who are carriers of a known genetic risk are supposed to share the truth with their family members .
Admittedly , it is a social obligation to be responsible for the lives of other people .
For all of society , it is a duty .
Take H1N1 as an example , all the people in Singapore , including students at school , travelers at Changi Airport , workers in an office as well as passengers on the street are forced by law to take their temperature and report the result to the relevant government authority in charge .
To those family members who care about them , it is also a moral obligation .
How can they not tell their loved ones who they really are and protect their loved ones from danger ?
The basis of a family is that everyone trusts and loves each other with no doubts .
Without trust and love , there is no difference between a family and a group of strangers living together .
Hence , it is essential to tell family members about the risk of their genetic disorder both as a social responsibility and a measure to protect the family .
Moreover , telling their family members the truth is the fastest and easiest way to get their support .
Without the support of loved ones , the patients ' lives are no better than in death .
Family members , as one of the closest groups of people from whom they can get comfort , are a crucial factor to their successfully getting over any possible problems as a result of a genetic disorder .
A study at New York University in 2010 showed that patients with family members around generally recovered 2-4 days faster than those taken care of by professional nurses .
Even for those patients with terminal diseases , the duration of their survival is 30 % longer due to family support .
Some people may say that telling the truth may raise some unnecessary doubts and panic which will endanger the family 's harmony .
While every family goes through various kinds of troublesome situations , the more troubles that a family has gone through together , the greater the bond that is established between the family members as well as the greater the amount of trust , love and understanding .
Hence , for a family in which every member truly believes in each other and loves each other , all these problems are just opportunities to make them stronger .
Just as the lyrics of Kelly Clarkson say , what does n't kill you makes you stronger .
Living in an Asian society where genetic testing is not common practice , I do think that it is the choice of the patient whether he or she wants to tell his or her relatives about his or her disease .
The courage to have the genetic testing done and yet not to inform their relatives about the risk that they may have may result in people being judgmental but it is actually just a risk and not a confirmed case .
Furthermore , since it is the person 's gene that is affected , he has the right to determine with whom he wants to share the information .
Nevertheless , while I feel that a carrier should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives about the genetic risk , I would like to suggest that the person should at least share the information with her or his potential partner ( husband or wife ) since the individual 's genetic risk may affect their future children .
Many people in our society are not well informed about many genetic diseases and many of them will most likely judge or at least differentiate those who have genetic diseases since they feel that the patients are abnormal or 'weird' .
This is because many people relate genetic diseases to ones such as Bubble-Boy disease , autism or down-syndrome .
With those diseases , many who are affected do actually have different physical characteristics compared to those without the genetic diseases .
While we do know that we should not discriminate against them based on their limitations , many people still do so with or without them realizing it .
In this particular case , we are discussing whether a person should tell his relatives about having a RISK of a particular genetic disease .
It is normal for people to demand a fair and similar treatment as others receive and therefore it is normal for people to try to keep some of their secrets or personal issues to themselves in case some people judge them or treat them differently . Many people love to hear what they want to and therefore they may just ignore the word 'risk ' and assume that the person is suffering from the disease .
To prevent that from happening , I do feel that it is up to the person whether he wants to share the information with his family since his family may either be paranoid or judge him and act differently .
Especially when it is just a risk , the option is really his since he is not an actual sufferer .
There may be some people who say that it is necessary to tell the family members about the risk since some of them may be affected . While I do think that this view has a point , how much you can trust your family regarding this issue may also be an issue .
Maybe we can trust our immediate family members but can we really trust all our other relatives ?
Furthermore , since the genetic risk or genetic disease is a very personal issue , it is the person 's call to tell the relatives about it .
However , as I said earlier , it is better for the person to at least reveal the potential risk to his or her future partner since their genetic risk may affect their children later .
This information needs to be at least acknowledged by the other party before they make the decision to get married and have children .
There is the possibility that both the husband and wife are carriers and therefore they should not have a child since their child may not be able to survive after they are born .
Or in a less extreme case , the child may be disabled .
This piece of information does play a role in family planning matters , therefore although no one is obliged to reveal their genetic risk to anyone , they should be encouraged to reveal it to their future partner .
In conclusion , whether or not the carrier wants to tell his relatives about his genetic risk is his own choice because it is his own gene and he has the freedom of choice .
He may have different considerations other than those who would judge him or the result of making his family worry for nothing when thinking of whether he should tell his relatives . No matter what choice he makes , we need to respect it and we have no right to say that he must tell his relatives about it .
We all know that life is priceless and that we have no right to judge a person 's death .
With improvements to technology , a new life with a genetic risk can be detected .
Genetic refers to the chance of inheriting a disorder or disease .
Therefore an entirely new dilemma is born : should a carrier of a known genetic risk be obligated to tell his or her relatives ?
This essay will discuss the reasons why their relatives deserve to be informed that their children have a genetic risk .
One of the reasons that the parents should be informed is that they have to decide whether they are capable of raising a child with a genetic risk .
A child with a genetic risk may not have the ability to work , to support the family with the others , and most of the time they are not accepted by the majority .
They may not be able to enjoy the life normal people can enjoy .
This competitive world is cruel to those who are not able to survive .
Parents and relatives have to work longer than expected and tirelessly to care for their child if he/she is not able to care for himself/herself .
The situation may become worse if the child has a disease like cancer or heart disease , which means that the parents would have another heavy burden of medical costs .
Not only the child but also the entire family would suffer .
It is still early enough for parents to decide whether they can care for a new life that is not able to work and may suffer pain for their entire life .
The other reason that parents should know if the baby they have is a carrier of a genetic risk is for the nation 's good .
There are always newspaper reports that a newborn baby has been abandoned at a hospital after the parents realized the baby had diseases that need a huge amount of money to care for .
In countries like Singapore , they are short of manpower to contribute to the nation .
However , every year the government has to spend a lot to help the disabled such as medical subsidies and building special schools to educate them .
Without an increasing number of disabled people in a nation , the government is able to concentrate on developing in other ways like militarily and educationally .
As citizens of a nation , they have a responsibility to support their country in many ways .
Moreover , in the world we are living in today , many abortions are performed in hospital every day .
It has become easier for people to accept it morally .
Therefore , I believe the parents have the right to know the healthiness of their child .
Many people may support the theory that all people have the right to enjoy the world , especially people with religions .
However , the problem is , will the people really enjoy their life if they have to stay at hospital every day with all the needles and endless pain ?
Parents know what is best for their children , thus they will make the right decision after they have been informed .
Also , human beings should improve medical knowledge in order to prevent this tragedy occurring .
I think a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
Genetic testing is a personal choice .
One should have full control of his/her private information and it is his/her right to decide whether or not to disclose it to someone else .
As far as I am concerned , when a couple are going to have children , they have a few tests run and see whether they could have some genetic diseases .
The results are disclosed to the husband and wife .
This is not the case I am talking about here .
The most obvious reason to argue for this premise is that the relatives of the carrier are at a high risk of carrying these diseases .
They have the right to know if they are at risk .
Also , telling them the result can let them largely reduce the cost of multiple testing .
They can also take immediate measures to reduce the possibility of having a disease .
Imagine a person has disease C that might be a result of gene A .
He has a test run and learns that he has the gene AA .
This means that both of his parents have gene A and they are both at high risk of having disease C. They could save the cost of running two separate tests to see whether they are at high risk of having disease C. If he has a test run and learns that he has gene Aa .
This means one of his parents has gene A and one cost of testing could be saved .
His relatives can then take measures , if this disease can somehow be prevented , to stop this disease from taking their lives .
However , this can also be achieved by personal choice .
One can choose to tell their relatives if they are at risk .
Most people care about their relatives , if there is no serious consequence of telling them , I assume most of them will tell their relatives to be careful .
One might also choose to hint or encourage certain relatives to run a genetic test if they are concerned about the negative consequences that may come across when they disclose their genetic results .
There are possible negative consequences that they might face if they disclose their genetic results to their relatives .
If a person is obliged to tell his/her relatives , he or she might be discriminated against by those who do not carry this gene .
He or she might even be advised not to get married or have children .
For example , if an unmarried person has gene Aa and gene Aa can cause a very serious disease .
After he takes the test and is obliged to tell his relatives , everyone will know that he is a carrier .
So all of the married couples go take a test and learn that they are not carriers . They might subconsiously see him as different and worry that he will find a wife who carries this gene as well .
Thirdly , it is hard to define relatives .
If a gene runs in the family , and one of the family members tests positive , whom does he need to tell ?
If it is a big family , is he obliged to tell everyone ?
Spouses usually have very close relationships , if person A tells his family that he has this gene , then his uncle C knows and tells his wife D that he needs to have a test because his cousin has this disease .
However , wife D is not even at risk of having this disease .
Then wife D might tell her mother , who likes to gossip on her way to the theatre .
In less than a week half of the town knows person A has a faulty gene , and his family might be at risk .
Then nobody wants to marry A , or his relatives .
This is the potential consequence if one does not have full control of his/her private information , especially when the party that he is obliged to disclose his information to is a potentially large group ( relatives ) .
In conclusion , a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell his or her relatives .
A carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell his or her relatives
Nowadays , people not only pursue comfort in their own lives but also a better development of their following generations .
Since technology in modern society has become so advanced , it becomes possible for people to decide to take a genetic test so as to find out whether or not they carry a genetic risk which can affect their next generation .
The debatable question , an ethical dilemma , is are people responsible for telling their relatives that they carry a known genetic risk ?
In my opinion , the necessity of telling family and relatives is quite obvious .
There are two basic reasons .
The first one is the importance of being responsible for your own wellness and the health of your relatives and the second one is being responsible for future generations .
The awareness of your relatives and family about your genetic risk is good for your wellness and the health of your relatives .
If you are carrying that genetic risk , then there is a high possibility that your relatives like parents or siblings are carrying the same genetic risk as well .
The genetic risk that you carry may or may not affect your health and put you in danger .
If you have n't undergone genetic testing , it 's just up to fate for what will happen to both you and your relatives .
However , if you have undergone it and known that you are a carrier , you are responsible for your whole family .
Even though you can not eliminate the risk completely , you can at least try to be alert to avoiding getting the disease .
As for those in your family who are more likely to be affected , they can go to the hospital to have checks regularly .
Therefore , telling your family and relatives to be prepared to fight the disease and even prevent getting the disease is your responsibility .
Furthermore , you are also being responsible for future generations by telling the truth that you are a carrier of a genetic risk .
If your wife is not aware of the truth and has your baby , it will be possible that your child will carry the same genetic risk .
As the parent , you are not being responsible for future generations , since you are allowing the genetic risk to be passed on from generation to generation whilst being aware of it .
However , if you tell the truth to your wife and relatives , you offer them the choice of whether to have a child or not .
And if you still decide to have a baby , since technology has become so advanced , it might be possible in the future that the application of altering genes is perfected and widely used . You can then choose to have children and give them a brighter future .
This is the responsibility of being a parent .
And in my opinion , this seems to be the main purpose of undergoing such genetic testing in the first place .
In conclusion , once you have undergone genetic testing and become aware of carrying some specific genetic risk , there are responsibilities to your relatives , yourself , and your following generations to tell your relatives and families the truth .
To tell or not to tell
Consider a case , where we decide to undergo genetic testing and know the result of it .
We have found that we actually are a genetic risk carrier .
Then it becomes troublesome as to whether we need to tell our relatives who may carry this genetic risk as well .
There are a lot of things we need to consider .
Every choice we make may have a huge impact on their whole lives .
As a result , what should we do ?
Tell them or keep this secret until we die ?
Many people feel that we should tell our relatives since we care about their health .
For example , diabetes is a kind of genetic disease .
Once we found we were carrying this genetic risk , it would be better for us to tell our family members because they may carry it as well .
If we tell them , they may start paying more attention to their daily habits like eating less sugar rich food and keeping a positive outlook .
And it is important for young people .
The earlier we tell them , the better the habits they will form to improve the rest of their lives .
What 's more , they may undergo genetic testing as well to see whether they are carriers or not which is also better for them .
However , some people may ask why we want to interfere in their lives ?
Sometimes it becomes extremely hard for people to accept this news especially if they know that they or their descendants may have a severe disease like blood disease which is untreatable .
Imagine you are living like a normal person but suddenly one day your relative comes to tell you that there is a possibility that you may develop a disease in the future . What kind of feeling are you going to have ?
It may affect our daily lives and we will think about it every day .
We become so anxious that we can not focus on anything .
At the same time , there will also be the chance that the genetic test result is not correct which means that we are actually wasting our lives worrying about this thing , so actually they have brought trouble to us .
Personally , I feel that we should still fulfill our responsibility to tell them the situation .
Since this will really affect their lives , what we should do is to try to make it affect it in a positive way .
We can not let it go .
We should know that although we may affect their lives , we can still let them make correct choices in the future .
It is only after we tell them that they will start paying attention to their health .
They will consider whether to give a birth to a new baby because of this genetic problem and they will start finding ways to try to avoid their baby carrying this genetic risk as well .
They always have a choice about whether to undergo the genetic test or not .
Maybe after we tell them , they will go for it and know more about themselves .
I know it will have a huge impact on them , but we should know that as they are our loved ones , we need to tell them and help them .
A genetic risk carrier should be obliged to tell
Genetic testing will be conducted when the individual is at risk of some possible disease .
Once the test is done , whether the results should be open to his or her relatives has caused extensive social controversy .
Some say it is a kind of invasion of privacy for the carrier who should be protected .
He or she has the right not to tell anyone .
However , in my opinion , it is the obligation of a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell his or her relatives about his or her actual situation .
This essay will illustrate this in two aspects .
First of all , it can be an alert for the family members of the patient which lets them be aware of the possible disease that they may also have .
As we all know , genetic risk carriers are likely to pass the genes to their family members .
Once one person in the family is found to be carrying risky genes , other members in his or her family may also have the risk of disease .
Some of the diseases may not show symptoms until the carrier is old enough .
Therefore , telling the relatives about the situation may avoid a lot of trouble in this way and save a lot of time for proper treatment .
Sometimes a life may even be saved if they are told early and conduct timely treatment .
So for the consideration of the other family members , the relatives should be informed .
Secondly , it can avoid genetic diseases being passed to the next generation when they intend to have children .
They should let their spouse know about his or her situation before marriage .
They need to ask for a doctor 's advice before they plan to have a baby .
Some genes will only pass to boys rather than girls , some are the opposite .
If the carrier refuses to tell the truth to his or her spouse , another life may be at risk of inheriting the genetic disease .
I noticed a story in a newspaper years ago .
A couple in China have a son of 5 years old .
Their son unfortunately fell ill and he was diagnosed with a kind of genetic disease which is very serious .
They were told that the wife 's family was carrying the polygenetic disorder and can pass only to boys rather than girls .
Therefore their son had inherited the genetic disease .
However , the wife had actually already known about the polygenetic disorder before the marriage and did not tell her husband .
The son died after one year 's treatment and the couple got divorced later after that .
If the wife had not hidden the truth and asked for a doctor 's advice before they had the baby , the tragedy would not have happened .
In a nutshell , a carrier of a known genetic risk has the responsibility to tell his or her relatives .
On the one hand , they can tell members of the carrier 's family the possible disease they may have and can perform treatment in time if possible .
On the other hand , it may pass the disease to the next generation if the carrier hides the truth .
Nowadays , with the development of technology , it is easy to perform genetic testing .
We can not deny that genetic testing really helps people when they face having a disorder .
However , I think that the genetic information is that person 's private information which should be protected by the law .
Therefore , I think a known genetic risk carrier should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives .
There are three reasons , as follows .
Firstly , the information concerning their genetics is something personal which is also private like people 's bank details .
Other people should not be told without the person 's permission even though they are his or her family or relatives .
The government should ensure the law protects this kind of privacy .
Once people 's genetic information is revealed to other people .
They may know the person 's potential disease or other bad things .
They may feel bias against this person or even shun him or her .
People do not have the ability to choose their genes , they should not be thought of badly because of a bad gene .
So I think that whatever the genetic situation is or whether the gene is inherited from their parents , it should not be told to anyone , even his or her family or relatives .
Secondly , the carrier of a known genetic risk may destroy the peace of a family and even break the relationship between the children with their parents .
Once his or her family or relatives know that the person is not related to them .
However happy they were before , some barrier would appear which would truly destroy the family gradually .
The relationship between parents and their children should not only be tested in the genetic way ; it is something much deeper and tighter .
The parents give knowledge and love to the children , meanwhile they feel happy with the company of the children .
The children rely on the parents to live .
When they grow up , they take care of their old parents and thank them for their dedication .
The relationship between parents and children is about love and dedication .
No-one wants to see a broken family due to the carrier of a known genetic risk .
Therefore , I think a known genetic risk carrier should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives without the person 's permission .
Finally , the technology of genetic testing is not very mature now .
There exists some possibility of wrong results .
If the wrong result was not caught by the doctor , the family and children may be sad and have a dificult time for their whole life .
Therefore I think a known genetic risk carrier should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives .
Therefore , considering the peoples ' privacy and the possibility of wrong results , for the peace of the family , I believe that a known genetic risk carrier should not be obligated to tell his or her family or relatives without the person 's permission .
A Carrier of a Known Genetic Risk Should be Obligated to Tell His or Her Relatives
More and more illnesses are discovered to be related to certain genes with the development of medical technology .
People can know whether they carry a disease in their genes after they have done a genetic test .
If there is no problem , that is wonderful .
However , not everybody is so lucky that they do not carry any diseased genes .
Therefore , once people find they carry the diseased genes , they should be responsible and tell their relatives , at least their family members .
It may be awkward and embarrassing for a person to tell relatives that he or she is a carrier of a known genetic risk .
But they are all from one family and have the same ancestors , so of course they have the same genes in some part .
Therefore , there is nothing to be shy or afraid of .
If the person tells their relatives that he or she carries a diseased gene , his or her relatives can go to hospital to check whether they also carry a diseased gene .
Then the relatives can prepare themselves to prevent the disease from occurring .
Also they can prevent the disease from going to their offspring .
If the relatives carry that diseased gene , they can share the experience with him or her and give them some help . They will also teach him or her how to communicate with others about this issue .
If he or she get married , he or she must tell his or her partner that he/she carries a diseased gene .
Then they can have a healthy baby with the help of the doctors .
Or else , if they hold back about the genetic risk , they may have an unhealthy baby and may cause the death of the baby or the end of their marriage .
There is a story I watched on TV .
A couple did not have a child after they married for a long time . Their parents were anxious about it and asked them to go to hospital to check what the problem was .
After they came back from the hospital , the man told his parents that the problem was that he carried a diseased gene so that they can not have a baby in their life time .
The woman did not know the test result , but she overheard the conversation and decided to divorce her husband .
After they got the divorce certificate , the man showed her the test report ; it showed that the woman carried the diseased gene instead of the man .
At that time , the woman knew how much her husband loved her but she ruined her happiness .
Tears showed nothing .
People can not avoid carrying the diseased genes which they were born with .
However , they can avoid the diseased genes being inhered by their children .
By telling their relatives that they may have a risk of carrying the diseased gene they can make their family members bond closely , also many risks and conflicts can be avoided .
Genetic testing has become a beneficial way to predict and protect each individual at risk for a disorder .
However , there arises a family-related ethical dilemma : if it is right to tell a carrier 's family once the test has been conducted and the results are known .
I am most inclined to believe that his or her relatives have the right to know the result .
The answer is simply that everyone , especially our family , has the right to know the truth .
Though it is said that genetic testing involves emotional and social risks due to the test results , while the potential negative impacts of the risk still exist , the consequences will be significant if other members of his or her family do not know .
Then they are unable to follow a suitable method to protect themselves and make emotional preparations .
Taking Angeline Jolie , for example , she is famous but she still revealed the truth about her genetic testing and the development of her breast cancer risk .
Everything is not that bad if you know how to look at the bright side with hope .
People may feel angry , depressed , or even guilty about their results .
In some cases , a carrier can suffer tension within a family because the result is also related to the others ' risk somehow .
However , I believe it is just a normal reaction to this situation .
In addition , though it can be possible in some cases that he or she and the family can suffer specific discrimination in employment and their social life , how can people face more dramatic tragedies such as sickness or death if they can not even overcome this difficult situation ?
Life is hard but people can not blame it on it being unfair .
It is just because you have not become strong enough to overcome the hard times .
Furthermore , living with a secret is not a good feeling , especially if the situations of your other relatives become worse , you may feel guilty and depressed .
Moreover , the truth can not be hidden forever but the later it is revealed , the more shocking and upsetting it will be .
As to the result , it is in the interests of the carriers and their relatives and telling the genetic testing result is necessary .
Last but not least , though genetic testing is a personal matter , telling the result to your family can improve and develop understanding and sympathy between each other as well as promoting awareness of taking care of everyone 's health .
That plays an important role in the possibility of relatives overcoming discrimination from society and anxiety about the risks .
To put it in the nutshell , I believe that people should have an obligation to tell their relatives about their genetic test results for the good of their health .
It can be very difficult for them but it is necessary for the carriers and their families .
In addition , emotional preparations and the way that you explain your genetic condition is also important so that you can convey the correct information to your family and relatives and , if necessary , to guide them if he/she wish to conduct similar genetic testing .
The Impact Of Social Media
Social media plays a vitally important role in our lives today .
It is almost impossible for us to keep away from it .
I started being involved in Facebook one year ago , when I had just arrived from Singapore .
And now I have over 500 friends on Facebook and bury myself in hundreds of posts every day .
We know each others ' status , developments and so on through social media .
For example , if we change our contact numbers , we do not send an SMS to each individual person any longer .
Instead , we post a status and tag our friends to inform them of this kind of change .
And if you are not on it , you will just get lost .
In certain aspects , social media has brought us quite a lot of convenience .
It is becoming even more convenient than talking over the phone since it is free .
We discuss everything we like and we have more personal space . Our friends also get more access to what we are doing and what we like .
And , we get the chance to talk to famous people like popular stars and know more about their lives .
In China , a lot of government organizations have open blogs to communicate with people , like firefighters , police stations and so on .
Social media allows them to explain to or inform people about what is going on .
And , actually , lots of rescues are performed with the help of social media , like looking for people who are lost and so on .
With more convenient and humanitarian communications , the relationship between government and people can be improved greatly .
What 's more , various cultures can be shown to us through social media .
We can learn more about news and other cultures through social media .
From this angle , social media has brought us closer .
However , we get fewer opportunities and put less importance on talking face-to-face since social media is so convenient , advanced and interesting .
And even when we gather together more people find themselves with less to talk about than before and choose to view their social media again .
When we are far away , social media makes it seem as if we are in front of each other ; sometimes when we are by each others ' side , we seem to be further away .
This kind of feeling makes people 's relationship not as stable , secure and reliable as before .
Besides , there are more people showing their pictures of yummy food or travelling experiences .
To some extent , this makes our lives more luxurious .
Myself , I long to go to some places after I see those beautiful pictures taken by my friends .
Sometimes I even can not sleep well because of excitement .
Social media makes our life patterns so fast and has left us with less time to think about our own lives .
Social media is becoming more important and we need to think more about how to make it serve us better and better .
Interpersonal skills , like any other set of skills require practice .
Besides that , these skills require time to develop and improve .
The spread of social media definitely has its place ; but as with all good things , it is better to have them in moderation .
Convenience and efficiency are two very important aspects of social media .
While millions of users are connected at any one time , any information can be readily available at their whim .
This improves the connectivity between the users .
For example , one is able to send notifications and other information we used to have to send in hardcopy previously over the web and the process takes seconds .
The recipient,will then receive the information almost immediately depending on the quality of the network .
This convenience can be considered as almost immediate .
Next , communication is also greatly improved .
In the past , vast communication was sent by one of many methods such as a telegram , snail mail and poor-quality voice calls .
With the adoption of applications such as Skype and Facetime , any individual can phase out most of the olden days ' communication methods .
Aside from hearing a voice , a web camera can also be used to emulate a 'real ' interaction with expressions and gestures .
Communication would have taken a different turn without easily available social media .
However , it is a good habit not to intensively use social media all the time .
Intimate interactions are greatly lacking in social media interactions , particularly touch .
Having to meet and interact for communication allows one to be closer to the recepient .
It involves a level of dynamic interaction which utilises the motor , thinking and verbal cortices of the mind to co-ordinate .
Unlike the use of social media , where most of the interaction is done with thinking and typing .
As a result , one does not develop the necessary skills required for proper interpersonal relations .
It is also entirely incorrect to fault social media alone for the current lack of interpersonal skills .
Howard Garner studied the effect of multiple intelligences amongst people and stated that interpersonal intelligence is a form of intelligence on its own - some have it , some do not .
Howard Garner mentioned that different intelligences can be measured , by utilising tests , and rankings .
Fundamentally , those who scored lower for interpersonal skills are more likely to stumble when this skill is needed .
Though social media need not necessarily be bad , it must be used appropriately - for work , family and friends .
The types of use must also be taken note of - informing , interacting , discussion and others .
The space of separation between the parties must also be looked at .
For people who are living very far from one another , the intensive use social media is justified .
Those who live within the same community should at least meet up , and not use social media as their primary source of communcation with each other .
And at the same time , improving interpersonal skills , through dynamic interactions between individuals and realtime presence .
The inclusion of intimate presence and touch could also bring a better rapport between those interacting .
Recently , the rise of social media has helped people to have closer connections with each other . It is more convenient and cheaper to have online contact compared to face-to-face meetings .
In my opinion , social media websites such as Twitter and Facebook will not affect the chance for people to have face-to-face contact and thus negatively affect interpersonal skills .
On the other hand , it may even increase the chance of having face-to-face contacts between people .
Firstly , as social media networks have a large user base , it helps to link people from different parts of the world .
In the days before social networks , people may not have had the chance to meet others from different countries or people they had never met before .
The number of people that they knew may have been limited to the people they met in daily life like classmates and working partners .
Therefore , social networks bring more and more connections between people who may have the chance to chat with people they have never known before , which helps to develop their interpersonal skills as well .
Secondly , although social networking means that people chat online but not face to face , they may still decide a time online to meet others face to face in daily life .
In this case , social networks help people to increase the frequency of their interactions .
For example , if social networks did not exist , business people would need to meet each other face to face which is time consuming . Even with business that is not very important , it still takes a lot time to travel which is a waste .
However , social networks help people to meet and chat much more easily , they can even use video chat and create group chats to chat with multiple parties at the same time .
Nowadays , some companies even conduct online video interviews with their applicants as it saves time and money .
Social networks may also create some negative impacts for people .
The largest negative impact is that due to online networks , some people start to use and rely on the internet every minute .
They spend too much time using online social networks and thus do not have time to have their daily meetings with people in real life .
It not only affects their interpersonal skills but is also bad for people 's health if they spend too much time on social media .
Secondly , social networks may leak certain personal information to the public . As the cyber environment is not perfect and not safe , people may not protect their privacy online effectively and , sometimes , some people may use others ' personal information to deceive people .
In conclusion , although the unsafe online environment and spending too much time on the internet may be the potential negative factors of using online social networks .
It provides people with more convenient contact methods and increases the frequency of meeting with each others .
It also helps people to develop their interpersonal skills through online chatting .
Overall , there are more benefits than costs .
The world is becoming increasingly small due to all kinds of social network websites such as facebook and twitter .
We can even know what a friend who lives thousands of miles away eats for lunch through these kinds of social media .
From some points of view , social media has a lot of advantages by letting us communicate with friends cheaper and more conveniently .
However , its disadvantages can not be ignored when you consider it as a platform for showing off and a stage for cyber crime .
Social network sites provide us with many conveniences .
Without hanging out with our friends or talking to our friends over the phone , we can learn of his or her latest news by scanning the webpage .
It can help us to know more about each other .
It can make people closer as well .
For example , if you find out that one of your friend 's favourite singers is Justin Biber through facebook , you can give him or her Justin Bieber 's new album or concert tickets as a birthday gift .
It would be really sweet and you two would surely become closer .
In addition , social network sites can help you keep in touch with friends living very far away .
I made some Canadian friends in Egypt .
Without facebook , we may have lost contact .
However , thanks to facebook , I can still keep in touch with them and I know what they are doing recently as if we were living close to each other .
The disadvantages of social media are quite undeniable .
Research shows that people will unconsciously hide his or her real thoughts when he or she says or posts something that will be exposed to the public .
It means that one can not know another 's real thoughts and personality by reading things that he or she puts on social media .
It could make one quite upset when they communicate in real life .
In addition , with all those " nice " guys around on the social network website , one may neglect people surrounding him or her and just communicate with friends on facebook .
It is a common scene , two people sitting next to each other seldom talking with each other but just looking at their cellphones .
This kind of behaviour is not good for people 's psychological health according to research .
Cyber communication is quite different to face-to-face communication and people who depend on cyber communication too much will not be used to real life communication .
In addition , cyber relationships can not always work in real life .
With no close relationships in real life but only close cyber friends , one is more likely to feel lonely because the physiological need of human beings is to feel the bond with others by our five senses .
With the desire of people to seem the best among others , social network sites have now become a place to show off .
Some people will post their expensive things or the overseas places of interest where they have been to their social network and get a feeling of satisfaction by doing so .
It is mentally unhealthy and it may make people , especially teenagers , become materially-minded .
Last but not least , with all kinds of personal information on ones social network page , it is covenient for criminals to make use of this information to commit a crime .
Above all , social network sites are like a double-edged knife and people can only make good use of it by avoiding the possible disadvantages of it , such as by putting less personal information on his or her facebook page .
Modes of communication have been changing over the years , from letter writing to social networking .
This phenomenon is caused by rapidly changing technology , which has made communication faster than ever before .
Today , social media sites , such as Facebook and Twitter , are relatively common within contemporary society - people can communicate with each other , online or offline , on these social networking platforms .
They can even make new friends with similar interests on these platforms , which are be able to connect almost everyone closely from many parts of the world .
However , critics may argue that the existence of social media sites has reduced physical human interactions among people as they prefer sitting in front of a computer to going out and making new friends .
This essay will discuss both the benefits and downsides of using social media in contemporary society .
Nowadays , social media is able to disseminate information faster than any other media .
About 50 % of people learn about breaking news from social media .
This is due to people spending comparatively more time on social networking than on reading newpapers .
Furthermore , with the current technology , smartphones are able to get access to social media sites which have made easier for consumers to use .
Hence , social media has benefitted the masses by equipping them with a powerful tool to disseminate information almost immediately to the people around them .
However , critics may argue that not all information or news disseminated is reliable .
There might be false information or hoaxes spread around social media .
For example , in 2012 , there were false rumors of fires , shootouts , and caravans of gunmen in a Mexico City suburb which spread through Twitter and Facebook .
This caused panic among the people who flooded the local police department with numerous phone calls , and this resulted in temporarily closing schools .
The spreading of false information can be a potential psychological threat to everyone , given that social media can disseminate information at a relatively fast speed .
Nevertheless , there are cyber police who roam around these social networking platforms to prevent these hoaxes spreading around .
But , there will still be unreliable sources spreading false information on social media sites despite high security to control almost every social networking movement .
Social media is able to improve relationships and make new friends , provided that there is mutual trust and mutual understanding between both parties .
Many of the teenagers today claim that they are able to keep in touch with their friends through social media , regardless of their location .
In the past , people used to write letters to their friends and it took a relatively long time to send the letter over .
Therefore , with the help of technology , people are able to catch up wth each other conveniently .
Furthermore , it is easier to find new friends who have simliar interests or hobbies .
However , in order for people to maintain their current relationships as well as making new friends , it requires mutual trust and understanding between both parties .
It might not be accurate to judge the other party 's feelings over social media as one may cover up their emotions while on social media .
In addition , there are also chances for people to miscommunicate with each other as they can not sense the tone of the other party over social media platforms .
This will result in unnecessary conflicts between two parties over a miscommunication .
But , if there is trust and mutual understanding on social media , it is ideal for people to improve their relationships and make new friends .
In conclusion , social media in contemporary society is able to help one improve relationships and make new friends , as well as , disseminate information efficiently to the masses .
However , there are risks of false information and chances of miscommunication .
Nevertheless , the advantages of social media will benefit the masses if the negative aspects of it can be carefully taken care of .
All-in-all , social media is the product of rapid technological advancement and there are more to come in the future .
Advantages : Social media sites have greatly eased long-distance communication and interaction due to their accessibility and convenience .
With a globalised and interconnected world today , Twitter and Facebook are now the mainstream platforms for social interaction .
Being just a touch away from any media/electronic devices , one can easily interact and communicate with his friends without much hassle .
Thus , long-distance relationships or friendships can be maintained and keeping in touch with your circle of friends has been made much easier .
With the sharing of personal photos , posting the status of ones personal feelings or experience and the ability to reply to these posts has allowed human interaction to be more engaged and to expand with ease .
Introverts or those who are shy about communicating with their friends are now able to do so in the form of words via social media platforms .
Thus , socialisation can occur seamlessly and effectively with the utilisation of such social media platforms . Meet-ups and appointments are no longer a barrier for humans to contact and communicate with one another , making human interaction possible at ones own convenience .
Society will adapt to this phenomenon as physical interactions are transformed into cyber interactions .
With the frequent usage and reliance on social media and the Internet , a society that socialises online will be more advanced and adapted to our highly connected world .
This will greatly help society to progress rapidly .
Disadvantages : One of the main concerns of using social media to communicate is credibility .
The reliability of what is being shared or expressed can not be proven physically as media limits this physical interaction , except when using a webcam to chat .
We can not be certain of the reliabilty or truth of some of the posts or information we receive through the Internet .
We may , in actual fact , be communicating with a hoax Facebook account of a cyber friend , which we assume to be real but in reality , is a fake account .
Photos and information retrieved from their profile page may be fabricated to suit a personal agenda .
Thus , the lack of face-to-face human contact through social media restricts the actual interaction which can be stimulated through social media .
Although emoticons can be used to show an emotion , this differs from the real authentic emotion of your friends when you observe them through their body language and their facial expressions .
The danger of such media socialisation is the uncertainty of such communication due to the lack of physical interaction .
Furthermore , this lack of physical interaction has affected human interpersonal behaviour since communication is made through social media instead of meet-ups .
This lowers the ability of humans to interact with one another which can adversely shape ones behaviour .
The lack of exposure to real life interaction with humans will not create the confidence and skills needed for one to interact seamlessly and effectively with others .
Therefore , for an effective and efficient society , there is a need to have a balance of both social media interaction and face-to-face human interaction by its people .
Nowadays , people can even use their phone to read news and everyone can be the first witnesses of what is happening in the world .
People use Twitter to follow the artist or celebrity they love and Facebook to see what their friends ' recent activity is .
Nevertheless , they can still use a phone to make normal calls and messages to other people .
Not only can phones do these jobs for them , but also devices like personal computers , laptops , tablets , and many other devices which are able to connect to the internet .
It is obvious to see that the internet saves people 's time and also connects people globally .
Several arguments have been made that social media actually has some inevitable disadvantages to people .
People can only use electrical devices to access the internet .
Whenever they need to use social media , they have to use a phone or the internet .
Generally people need their eyes to look at the display screen of their phone or computer and fingers to manipulate the corresponding device .
As a result , they will lose eyes to contact and hands to express their feelings to people nearby them , which means they have lost the tools they need for face-to-face contact .
This can be easily seen in restaurants or cafes nowadays .
A family of four having dinner in a restaurant without any chatting , because they are holding and looking at their display screen with one hand when the other hand is holding a fork .
Or a group of friends having high tea in a caf  without chatting , because they do not know what to talk about but pressing on their display screen .
The children nowadays do not know neighbourhood games or who is staying beside them , all they know is pressing icons on the screens .
These are some concrete examples of how social media reduces face-to-face human contact .
When people get used to using social media to contact other people , what will happen is that their interpersonal communication skills will degrade and eventually be lost .
Firstly , they will have lost the courage to meet strangers , or even the courage to talk .
Also , they will not have enough experience to communicate with people in reality and will not be trained in their conversational skills .
As a result , social media helps them do these jobs but indirectly affects their interpersonal skills .
Social media does have some other advantages beside their general benefits to human beings .
First of all , people save money by using the internet to contact other people and to read news .
A father may be able to make a call to his daughter who is in another country via social media software instead of making an international call which costs a lot on a normal family salary .
He can even talk to his daughter face-to-face using video call via the internet .
Secondly , people makes friends all over the world and are able to update their friends on their recent activity easily .
A guy who is going to travel for months can easily tell all of his friends about his activity .
When one of his friends who is not aware of this has failed to contact him via telephone calls , he might be able to get his whereabout using social media .
These are the advantages that work most of the time .
In conclusion , social media benefits people in several ways but at the same time it harms people .
People should avoid the misuse of social media and use it in the proper way .
With the aids of social media , people bond globally , information flows rapidly , and humans live happily .
All of us are living in a technologically advanced society .
Have you ever wondered why we use these tools to connect ourselves with other people ?
It started with the invention of technology which has evolved tremendously over the past few decades .
In the past , we travelled by ship and now we can use airplanes to do so .
In the past , it took a few days to receive a message as we needed to post our letter and now we can use e-mail , which stands for electronic message , to send messages to our friends or even use our phone to send our messages .
From the example that I have mentioned earlier , we can see that the distance between us and our loved ones is getting further apart .
This is because with the ease of technology such as airplanes , some of our friends might be going overseas to continue their studies or even you may be away from your family to pursue your studies or even career .
Thus , this makes Twitter and Facebook one of the mediums that we need .
Nevertheless , everything in life has positive and negative effects .
This is applicable to these social media sites .
The next two paragraphs will be discussing the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our society .
With the help of social media tools , we can stay in contact and keep ourselves up to date with our family and friends even though we are away from them .
Social media sites such as Facebook allow us to share our pictures or even chat online with our parents while we are overseas .
This approach helps the parents to communicate with their children and know what kind of activities their children do when they are overseas .
Social media is beneficial as it connects you and your loved ones even though you are separated by distance .
It might not be able to replace the joy that you have when you are with your family but it could help to reduce the sadness of being away from your family .
As I mentioned in the beginning , there are also disadvantages of social media tools .
One of them is that it reduces the level of concentration , especially among the youngsters .
This is because it is part of everyone 's routine to check their facebook page as their friends will post something new every second .
Thus , you can see that some students will browse facebook while attending lectures .
This means that the students are not concentrating when they are supposed to .
As a result , it could affect their lives and studies .
This could then lead to stress as these students are not able to cope with their studies because they were distracted .
In my opinion , every individual has to take responsibility for their own lives by making the right decision .
There are advantages and disadvantages to using social media sites , however , in this case , striking a balance between social media and our lives is the most important thing to do .
Nowadays , the use of social media platforms is commonplace in our lives .
In an increasingly globalised world , such platforms even enhance and complicate the links between individuals in the world .
Thanks to them , people can get to know one another online , without having to travel to meet up for business purposes for companies or personal reasons .
However , it is also bringing some social changes whereby such virtual worlds are overtaking the real-life world , resulting in some negative impacts on individual 's daily lives and therefore becoming a large problem in societies as a whole .
As people spend more and more time on such social media sites , the importance of face-to-face human contact has decreased .
As people feel more confident online where they do not have to face each other in real-life on the spot , they feel more comfortable and thus prefer communicating online .
This results in a lack of interpersonal skills in individuals , especially young students as they always have the option to turn their back on real life and go online .
This becomes a huge problem when they have no choice and have to face things in real life .
As they are so used to having an online avatar , they may lose their self-identity in real life and may not realise how to interact people in real life .
Another problem with social media is that the benefits from investing such enormous time and energy in it is not reflected as something positive to the users .
The reason why it is so addictive is that the more people get into social media , the more they seek attention from their friends .
However , such sparks of sudden attention are extremely short-lived and gone easily thus they do not add any value or meaning to the user 's life .
Also , according to research , it has been proven that users feel sadder after using Facebook and this is because users unknowingly compare their lives with other people 's lives .
However , most people only post the happiest moments in their lives .
Social media definitely has some other strong benefits that make the users stay like the links among the people .
Indeed , I myself use Facebook just because of the friends ' contacts that I want to keep .
However , friendship in a virtual world is so superficial that is not so relevant to real life .
Also , as numerous profit-driven companies realize the high human traffic on such social media sites , they use it as a pond to fish for customers by uploading many advertisements .
Furthermore , this also possibly triggers privacy issues as Facebook allows some other profit-driven companies to have access to information on its users .
As this happens , users are more and more prone to any possible fraud .
Social media sites are at their peak at the moment . However , I believe that when people realize that such sites are not making them better people in real life , they will not indulge in it as much as they are now .
They will soon realise that they do not need such social media sites to keep in contact with their friends because , if they really need somebody , they will reach their friends no matter what .
We think we are all connected through all sorts of social media , but are we really connected or falling apart ?
Social media sites like Facebook and Twitter are created with the intention of connecting people from around the world .
The idea seems great , and nowadays most people , even the older generation , will have at least one social media platform like Facebook .
Parents are now the " friends " of their kids , and they can now " follow " their kids more closely and in real time .
People post about their random thoughts or daily activities via Twitter and post different kinds of photos on Facebook frequently , to stay connected with their so-called friends .
However , as we then tend to spend too much time on this and have significantly reduced our face-to-face human contact , that will eventually affect our interpersonal skills .
First and foremost , I would like to share the advantages of using such social media in my daily life .
As a student , I tend to meet lots of people from different backgrounds and in different settings .
We may meet only once but we exchange our contact numbers as well as facebook accounts in order to keep in touch .
Unlike just keeping contact numbers that we may not even call , social media like facebook is a great way for friends from different areas or even from different parts of the world to be connected .
Within a few clicks , we can check the friend 's profile and read on for his/her updates .
On the other hand , we could update our profile by posting on the wall and our friends could read up on the newsfeed .
This allows friends that may not have the time to meet up to stay connected in a way .
Not only that , new friends can be made easily through such online platforms .
Hence , our social circle is indeed expanding .
Nonetheless , what seems to make us connected can be the force that pulls us apart .
The obvious disadvantage of using social media is the reduction of face-to-face contact .
This subsequently leads to poor interpersonal skills that inhibit the growth of our real social circle .
For example , we tend to send birthday wishes when Facebook prompts us - " Today is someone 's birthday " .
In fact , we may have just forgotten our friend 's birthday .
We used to send cards during festive seasons like Chinese New Year , and we felt very good for writing one and , of course for , for receiving one with stamps on it .
Gone are those times , and now we do a mass message and the receiver may find less meaning in such online wishes .
As time passes , we may have more " friends " on the list , but the meaning of friends needs to be redefined .
In a nutshell , every sword has two edges .
The users of every social media site need to strike a balance between the real world and the virtual one .
We should maximize the benefits of such platforms but be careful of its impact on our actual lives .
Ultimately , the best way to enhance interpersonal skills is still through face-to-face meetings and social media sites are only the tools to enhance it .
Nowadays , social media sites are commonly used in society .
I believe 80 percent of people use social media sites .
These sites play the role of connecting people around the world .
It consists of the functions of connecting , sharing , interacting and advertising .
However , there are also some disadvantages of social media which are concerning for society .
Therefore , this article is written to explain the pros and cons of using social media in our daily lives .
Firstly , with the function of social media sites that connect people , everyone is able to interact and communicate with friends and families , or even strangers , without any time and place constraints .
Through social media sites , we can chat with our friends who stay in Europe or New Zealand .
There are over thousand miles between Singapore and these two countries .
However , we are able to chat with our friends without travelling to these countries .
It saves a lot of money and time as well as strengthening our relationship although we stay in different places around the world .
Besides that , companies can also use the convenience of social media sites , such as Facebook chat or Skype to facilitate meetings with parties of projects from around the world .
Substantial costs are saved without the tiring travel from one point to another .
With a huge amount of cost savings , this capital can be utilized in other sectors which benefits the company and boosts up the company 's profit .
However , there are always two sides of a story .
Some scholars argue that the use of social media reduces face-to-face connection between humans .
Since ancient times , humans have interacted with others face to face .
Without facial expressions , it is easier to misunderstand the intention of speakers .
That is why facial expressions are one of the most important elements in social learning .
In addition , " social media sites will affect writing skills " is the point of view in society .
Based on a statistical report , writing skills will be more reduced when more time is used on social media sites .
I believe most of us have had the experience of suddenly forgetting how to write a word that we should know .
The autocorrection software is so effective when using electronic devices that we do not realize the importance of writing .
Writing is an essential skill of a person who express their own feelings and opinions .
'Privacy ' , this is a word that is popular in these past few decades .
People have their own rights to privacy .
I believe that most of us agree with these terms .
However , there is news about social media sites leaking users ' information to companies with cash reimbursement .
Everything we type in social media sites is recorded on the server and then transferred to the companies for spying and advertising .
Although it looks like there are no laws and it is your own space to speak and do anything you want , you are actually wrong .
You are not only controlled by the government 's laws but also spied on by the government .
In conclusion , every story has two sides .
It is our responsibility to identify the advantages and disadvantages of social media sites .
To utilize the technology well , we should do our best not only to balance the pros and cons but also increase the pros and lessen the cons .
Thus , the new technology will be able to bring a prosperous future for us and the next generation .
With the current wide spread of advanced technology , social media sites are becoming more and more popular .
Getting connected on social media such as facebook and twitter has become a main trend as well as a daily habit nowadays .
With this situation , both advantages and disadvantages of using social media apply to our daily lives .
On one side , it is obvious that many advantages have been brought to our lives .
Social media provides people with the opportunity to make contact with each other anytime and anywhere .
Whether we are at home or at school , at work or on a holiday , we are able to communicate and interact with our friends .
Even when people are thousands of miles apart , social media makes it possible to interact by writing comments .
When our phones are accidentally unusable , we can also use social media to get in contact with our friends .
Some people who are shy when talking in public can also actively take part in group chatting via social media .
Also , we can make more friends by such interactions when our friends also bring their friends in .
Therefore , the popularity of social media sites has made it more convenient for people to update friends ' status and contact friends more frequently .
On the other side , we need to think about the influence of social media .
There are still many disadvantages of using social media .
Firstly , interpersonal skills may be affected by the reduction in face-to-face human contact .
While social media brings convenience to people 's lives , people are more and more willing to use social media for chatting instead of face-to-face chatting which has a time and place requirement .
People who are not good at public chatting may be more reluctant to talk to people , and their interpersonal skills can never be improved in this situation .
Secondly , people 's overuse may avoidably , to some degree , exacerbate social alienation , and this kind of alienation causes some social media users to suffer from an over-dependence on virtual social networking .
More and more networking has been transferred to the internet from real life .
This is a potential danger for teenagers who are growing with social changes .
Thirdly , a lot of updates are of luxurious living standards as well as other boasts which may make people 's daily lives seem more luxurious more grandiloquent , which is not an accurate social trend .
Lastly , it is easy for people to waste a lot of time using social media .
Again , there is a trend for them to suffer from social media addiction and their study and work may be greatly influenced .
Since we can see both advantages and disadvantages to using social media , and we can not deny the huge benefits that have been brought to us , this main trend of using social media may still last for a long time .
Therefore , everytime that we use social media , we should take both sides into consideration and try to avoid being affected by the disadvantages .
Only by absorbing the essence and discarding the dregs can we make better use of social media .
In a sophisticated era like these days , experts keep producing inventions that are meant to make life easier .
Geographical and transportation borders are not a problem anymore because communication and information technologies are being enhanced continuously .
Telephones may have been perceived as the biggest innovation ever created the first time Graham Bell introduced it .
However , since the internet began , the telephone started to give way to social media sites .
Many advantages are given to its users .
Let us take an example from Facebook and Twitter , two of the most famous social media sites .
Through Facebook , peope are able to maintain relationships with their old acquaintances .
This benefit can not be obtained through the telephone or mail because people 's details and address may change from time to time , while on Facebook , people can keep in contact with old friends just by using their name and photo , for example , as the identifier .
Facebook is like a combination of a message and chatting service , a personal profile , a media sharing platform , and other entertainment add-ons ( i.e .
social games ) which allows users to communicate with remote people , and also to update and express themselves at the same time .
Twitter , which has more simplified fuctions compared to Facebook , is more beneficial if used as an information sharing site .
Twitter only allows users to give updates that are limited to short sentences in order to spread the words fast , so only simplified messages are delivered .
With Facebook , a comprehensive way of sharing is offered since multiple photos and videos can be uploaded , long notes can be published , even documents and data can be shared through Facebook nowadays .
These advantages also come in handy as most of these social media sites are accessible through mobile applications on our smartphones .
Despite the luxury that is offered by social media , there are also harmful side effects which people may not realize beforehand .
Research shows that face-to-face meeting frequency among people that are addicted to social media sites has been decreasing .
As a consequence , it affects their interpersonal skills .
People can think while typing and prepare what they want to say but in face-to-face communication , every word that comes out of your mouth , and that may not be well arranged , is the representation of your personality .
This skill requires practice and can not be done completely through social media .
There is a common situation where a family is having dinner together in a restaurant but everybody is busy with their own gadget , posting pictures to Facebook , updating their status on Twitter , or even chatting with friends .
Social media serves a purpose to bind together people in spite of their geographical boundaries but it does not mean that surrounding people should be neglected as a result .
This is related to the interpersonal skills that are mentioned before , that can decrease qualitatively if we are used to facing gadgets , not facing human beings .
Another disadvantage that affects other people is that by only showing selected parts of our lives , we build a " false image " in public .
We tend to only share our happy moments on media .
Because of this , other people start to think that our lives are full of happiness with no problems at all .
Other people then are influenced by us and tend to do the same .
As a result , people think lowly of themselves and this may lead to depression and mental disorders .
It also reduces our sympathy .
This is a serious social problem and affects a lot of people .
As explained above , modern and sophisticated technology does n't always give advantages .
There are a lot of disadvantages that people may not realize .
It is up to people 's discretion and comprehension to decide which side they want to take .
So , we should never forget to think of and calculate the benefit and loss of every decision that we make .
Nowadays , developments in technology improve the lives of many people .
In most countries , there is an emergence of social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter .
Many people think that social media sites have benefits for communication between people while some others argue that there are several negative impacts for society .
One of the advantages which are provided by those social media sites is that they can connect us more closely than before .
In past decades , when social media sites were not yet fully developed , people connected with others who lived far away by using a phone , or even a letter .
However , calling a person by using a phone and writing a person a letter requires some money , and sending a letter to a person who lives far away , especially in villages , takes a long time .
The appearance of social media sites causes these problems to be solved .
People connecting through social media sites can spend no money on the communication , and also take only one or a few seconds for the message to send .
Therefore , this advantage of social media sites saves money and time , and also provides convenience for many people .
Moreover , this also provides an alternative way for people to contact a person whom they have not seen for a very long time , such as their friends in primary school and secondary school .
As we graduate from a school , we will probably lose contact with some of our friends .
Some of them may have changed their phone numbers and addresses , and we are not able to contact them by phone or a letter .
If phone and letter are the only way to contact them , we would probably not able to find them .
Facebook and Twitter can serve as an alternative route to making a connection between us and our old friends .
Hence , social media sites serve as a platform for the connection .
Everything that comes with benefits will also have disadvantages .
On the other hand , social media sites also cause some negative impacts for people and society .
The adoption of those social media sites makes people so rely on them so much that some of them prefer using those sites to contact each other than talking to each other face to face .
Many people argue that this is the most serious problem brought by social media sites .
The usage of social media sites indirectly causes a reduction in face-to-face human communication in real life , which will in turn cause the loss of interpersonal skills for many people .
As we all know , interpersonal skills are essential for us to communicate with each other and to present our views and ideas .
The lost of interpersonal skills results in the inability for people to present their ideas well .
As a result , they will gradually decrease their ability to compete with each other in society .
In conclusion , social media sites cause both positive and negative consequences for people and society .
As a part of this modern society , we should learn to distinguish between good and bad impacts caused by the adoption of technologies , and also learn to avoid the cons and maximize the benefits of these sites .
With the technological advancements of recent years , the need to keep in touch with people and latest news has fuelled a tremendous demand .
Some famous examples would be social media sites like Twitter and Facebook .
With increasing users of more than billion from all over the world , social media sites have clearly demonstrated their success in playing an important part of our lives .
However , there are arguments that social media use brings a reduction in face-to-face human contact , which in turn affects interpersonal skills .
Let 's examine the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily life and society .
First and foremost , all social media sites are free .
All users need is an internet connection and an email account , so everyone can have a Facebook or Twitter ID to start their journey in social media life .
Secondly , it helps people to keep in touch with one another .
Finding old friends through Facebook , for example , is easier than asking around people in real life .
Social media helps to lessen the hassle of geographical distance and brings people closer .
Thirdly , social media sites keep us up to date on the latest news and updates from almost everywhere in the world , all a click away with the refresh button .
Last but not least , social media sites also link people together by allowing us to create our own groups , pages or sites to share our hobbies , interests and studies in particular subjects .
Hence , it is undeniable that these sites play an important role in our globally interconnected world .
However , social media sites also have a second side of negative impacts on humans .
Undeniably , it becomes more addictive when we spend more time socialising and interacting virtually .
We spend the majority of our time on sites like Facebook and Twitter and it affects our daily work productivity and performance .
In the corporate world , employers often block social media to prevent employees from spending their office time on their personal leisure rather than concentrating on their work .
Using text-messaging language as an informal way of communicating on social media also has a bad impact on us in the long term .
The more time we spend on these sites , the less time we spend on face-to-face interaction with one another .
Hence it lessens valuable interaction between humans and the time we spend away from the computer screen or mobile phone .
In addition , there are also some false reports and fake IDs that occur on both social media sites where people use a fake ID to insult or harass someone , like in the case of Heather Chua which occurred recently on Facebook .
These malicious comments often go viral and it creates a strong negative effect on the real user in real life , which might lead to an unwillingness to interact with others in real life by the victim .
In conclusion , everything has a two-sided effect and it depends on how we exploit it .
With the current booming technology , it is agreeable that people become more technology-savvy and want to spend more time interacting with each other through social media sites . However , it does not mean that we should neglect face-to-face human interaction as it plays an even more important role in our lives .
As more and more social websites such as Twitter , Facebook and Weibo which have become ubiquitous , seamless and imperative in our life , people may worry about the young generation having problems with face-to-face communication skills .
However , I believe that the benefits brought by these online chatting rooms tremendously outweigh their repercussions .
Social media enables us to explore the world far far away without paying for expensive airplane tickets and taking a one-week holiday .
The convenience is beyond description .
With a small smart phone or a computer at school , at work or at home , we can easily make friends worldwide with a 'click ' and get to know about their life through having conversations with them , reading their blogs , photos and statuses .
Compared to face-to-face interaction , online conversation is easier for strangers to speak to each other .
Since some of the information has already been revealed on the home page , it is also easier to find some common topics to talk about .
Moreover , people usually like to share boldly about their real feelings online as their masks , in reality , are taken off .
This has been indicated by a report done by Boston University in 2012 , 80 % of information posted online is true while a person may behave similarly 3 out of 10 times in real life .
This shows that a facebook friend may know more about you than your close friend who does not have a facebook account .
That is because we are acting in reality while we have no reason to do that in the online virtual world .
Although sometimes the genuine sharing of information may be inappropriate or even harmful , such as a prevalent usage of vulgarity and harsh comments , we can minimize those repercussions through strict regulations of online content .
Another advantage of social media is in aiding the spread of democracy .
People around the world can easily share their thoughts about their governments .
That eliminates the incomplete information disadvantage of some remote rural regions where people are less aware of what actually is happening around them .
One example is the 2012 riots that happened in Egypt and Zambia .
The idea of searching for democracy passed from Egyptians to people in Zambia quickly through the use of social media .
However , as the government controls most of the media .
These social media may be the tools of a campaign and of manipulating the thoughts of the public .
For example , in a 2012 general election in Singapore , Dr Tan Chee Keong made use of facebook to spread his campaign videos to the public .
Because of this , social media is still a much fairer and more transparent online platform for the public to share ideas compared with other traditional medias .
Intensive use of social media reduces the time people spend in face-to-face communication .
It is commonly seen in a food court or restaurant where a group of people are sitting together around a table with each of them having a cell phone in their hands .
They are too busy with too many virtual friends and some of them neglect the feelings of their real-life friends .
In this case , I have to say that to err is human .
What we can do is to educate the public about the importance of their friends just by their side and teach them to manage their time well .
In conclusion , the use of social media has more advantages than disadvantages in our daily lives .
What we can do is to cautiously manage our time spent online and monitor our words used online .
With the regulation of government and relevant authorities , the virtual world would be a better world .
Social media sites ' role in connecting people around the world is undeniable .
Thanks to social media , communication among people all over the world is possible and can be done with ease .
Apart from the ease of communication despite distance , many other advantages such as knowledge sharing and trades can be done through social media as well .
Nevertheless , with those advantages , some disadvantages may appear such as a reduction in face-to-face human contact which affects interpersonal skills , privacy issues , as well as some frauds that can be perpetrated through social media .
Twitter , Facebook and Skype are some social media sites which enable us to keep in touch with our friends or family who are in other cities or countries .
Through those sites we are able to talk to them , to know what their activities are and who their friends are , etc. From a superficial point of view there is no doubt that these sites help us to have a better relationship with our relatives despite the distance .
The sharing of information can be done faster through social media as well . That is why , nowadays , many news publishers make their own social media accounts , for example Channel News Asia has a twitter account and will update its followers with headline news .
That actually shows how news and information can easily be shared through social media .
Furthermore , since many teenagers and young adults are fans of social media , this information can reach them easily without needing them to watch or listen to the news reports .
Due to the popularity of social media , many people start to conduct their business via these sites .
More and more advertisements can be found on Facebook , whether it is our friends who sell their products or professional brands selling their products online , we can buy and contact the sellers through those sites , which can be considered as an advantage for us , the buyers .
However , is it the same when we keep in touch with someone virtually compared to when we meet them personally ?
I do think there is a difference and I believe many of us would agree .
When we write or communicate virtually , we can hide our true feelings and may not be ourselves since we do not want the other party to judge us .
Other than that , sometimes the message of one party can not be delivered properly to the other one since the communication is done through written language , and thus the 'tone ' of the message when sent and when it is received may be different .
Many people are very brave in telling people about their opinions online but in real life some of them can be very shy and not outspoken at all .
This will lead to bad interpersonal skills as well as a problem of trust .
Nowadays we can not really trust new people whom we know from social media since we will never know whether they are even 'real' .
Some people fake their identities on media sites so that they can know more people or some may even cheat others .
In addition , privacy issues have become more common nowadays since some people do not realize that they may actually be sharing some information that they are not willing to share in the first place .
Therefore , while social media sites undoubtedly have benefits in our lives , we should consider its drawbacks and thus use it wisely so that we can gain more of its benefits and make it disadvantage us in the smallest way possible .
It is a common scene to see almost everyone on public transport watching at their phone or wearing a pair of earphones in modern society today .
Not only one but many developed and developing countries have the same picture .
Some say that it is a necessary step for human evolution .
Social media sites like Twitter and Facebook are popular among people in order for them to connect to others , even from different countries .
It also brings many negative effects such as loss of face-to-face communication skills which is important in a working environment .
This essay will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily lives .
One of the significant advantages of using a popular social media site is that people can reach other easily , even without having contact for a long time .
In this fast paced and competitive world , people may not be able to keep in touch with others .
With the help of social media , people are able to upload their new discoveries and funny scenes on it and they can be updated with new information from their friends .
Personally , I am studying overseas , busy study life keeps me away from contacting my old friends .
Using a common social media site with my friends helps me know what their statuses are nowadays .
And I am able to easily find a common topic when I contact them .
In Singapore , many Malaysians cross the sea to work here .
Many of them are busy in work and separate from their children .
One of the Managers in my working place is in the same situation .
After my manager taught her mother how to use Facebook , she was able to upload video clips of her grandchild .
Therefore my manager does not miss the moments of her daughter 's growth .
Social media sites are also a very useful tool for people to start a new friendship or relationship .
People get connected or closer to those with the same preferences .
It is easier for a person to approach the other knowing this .
Students can exchange their experiences while studying even when they are in different countries .
People are able to share their culture or pretty photos online , therefore others can spread the joy with them .
Thus I believe that social media sites are a useful tool to help people to know each other better .
However , social media sites are a double-edged sword , it also causes some negative effects in our daily lives .
One of the disadvantages that concerns many people is that people lose interest in face-to-face communication .
Many people like to use language to protect themselves , and lose confidence when they talk to each other .
Although not everyone is good at public relationships even without the existence of social media sites , we can not deny that they do affect some people in terms of their interpersonal skills .
In conclusion , a shadow always exists when there is light .
We should take the advantages of the creatures we create and try to avoid the negative effects .
Social media sites can be a very useful and convenient tool and can bring people closer in this globalised world .
The use of social media has largely influenced our ways of communicating with one another .
Online friends become real life friends and real life friends communicate with one another online .
Social media has changed our ways of exchanging information and interpersonal relationships profoundly .
There are advantages and disadvantages of this change .
Social media has reshaped our way of communicating .
In real life , we communicate with one another as equal participants .
We share ideas , stories and forge friendships based on mutual respect .
However , communication on social media is largely based on " broadcasting and listening " .
When we use facebook and post pictures and statuses .
We are actively " presenting " fa  ades of our lives in front of others .
We tend to post pictures with the best looks and statuses that are funny .
We broadcast these fa  ades of ourselves to others .
The images we choose to present are tentatively considered .
The audience is not some specific person , but everyone we might know , or even the entire world .
There is an element of seeking out attention rather than expressing ones true opinion on social networks .
On the other hand , the viewers , are not the listeners .
They are just scrolling down pages and pages of pictures and statuses and seeing one of them which they might think is funny .
It is not the broadcasters themselves they care about , but the content .
This type of communication does not help in forging interpersonal relationships .
In real life , establishing friendships requires an all-round understanding of one another and caring for one another .
The latter requires face-to-face interaction where we can show our emotions to one other .
One can not truly understand a person by only stalking his/her facebook page where he/she carefully chooses what to present .
One can not truly show their emotions to another by texting some = ) signs .
The broadcasting and viewing model is not good for forging relationships .
However , it is good for sharing information .
On social media , everyone is a broadcaster and a viewer .
With my social network account , I seldom read newspapers or go to news websites anymore because I can easily read them from the statuses of my friends .
If I am interested in politics , I can just follow some political newspapers or public figures .
I get news about sales , clothes and cosmetics from my friends .
If some of my friends have horrible taste in clothes and he/she posts them often , I can simply block him/her .
Information gets circulated .
The most popular information gets circulated the most so I can seldom miss it .
Social networks play a role in providing and also filtering information .
This saves a lot of time for me compared to reading newspapers and watching TV .
Personally , I feel more at ease on social media .
From the above two points of view I think that social media could forge more interest-based friendships .
With the help of social media , I became real life friends with people from online forums whom I share the same interest with .
I also discovered some of my friends ' interests which I have in common with them so that talking to one another is about much more than life , study , friends , etc .
The communication does not focus on how we feel , or what we say , to each other , but whatever is interesting , or the content .
In this case , interpersonal skills are not as important because our goal is not to impress somebody , but to get the information that we are both interested in .
In conclusion , I think social media has reshaped interpersonal relationships from a more human-based friendship that requires sharing and caring between friends , to a more information-based friendship that requires a mutual interest .
There are advantages and disadvantages in itself , however , whether it is good or bad we are still not sure .
It is just different .
Advantages and disadvantages of using social media in daily life
People living in the modern world really can not live without social media sites like Twitter and Facebook .
Almost all students and young adults possess a Facebook or Twitter account .
It is true that social media makes people able to connect with one another more conveniently .
However , it seems that , especially for some , sharing some parts of their lives such as videos and photos on social media sites has become very necessary .
An extremely interesting and ironic phenomenon has been discovered where a group of friends will meet and sit around one table , but none of them are really chatting with one another .
Instead , all of them are more interested in posting pictures of this " cheerful " meeting to their social media accounts .
Therefore , there is a need to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of social media .
Social media enables people from different parts of the world to communicate with one another .
People used to write letters and send post cards to keep in touch with ones living far away from them in the past .
It can take a few days or weeks for them to receive the messages .
Nowadays , what people need to do is just sit typing in front of the computer in their own rooms .
And people on the other side will only need a second to receive the message .
Distance and time are no longer problems , which is convenient especially when instant chat is needed .
However , when people become more and more addicted to this convenience and fail to communicate with people who are close to them , their face-to-face interpersonal skills are lost .
Social media provides people with a way of talking and chatting which can never be considered as a way of communication .
When people chat on those media sites , there is no eye contact , no emotional delivery and even the expressions are typed in by using some combination of punctuation .
For convenience , sentences are shortened to just three or four words such as lol ( which means laugh intensively ) and " asap " ( which means as soon as possible ) .
People indeed go to great lengths to make their words as short as they can .
Thus , once they are communicating with people to their face , expressing themselves appropriately really becomes a big problem .
Social media also provides people with a huge source of information about people and things that they find interesting .
For example , on Twitter , it is exciting to follow people that you adore like famous movie and TV stars , business men and entrepreneurs .
It makes people feel much closer to their admirers ' lives and works .
Updated news people care about can be easily obtained when you refresh your social media sites on your smart phones and laptops almost every time at any time .
However , after one has registered with social media sites which are not reliable , all the information you have filled in will be a weapon against you in the future .
Furthermore , not everyone on social media sites are honest .
The profile picture may not be the person who that user says he or she really is .
The reason might just be that he or she just wants to " decorate " his or her face .
But there is the possibility that the person on the other side is deceiving you in order to obtain information against you .
Having no pledge of authenticity risks people 's information and private details that are shared on social media sites .
To sum up , social media has advantages and disadvantages in people 's daily lives .
It shortens the distance between people from all over the world and makes instant communication possible .
And it becomes more convenient to obtain and update information by using social media .
On the contrary , social media causes people to lose their ability to communicate effectively in their real lives and makes people risk exposing their privacy to those whose identity can not be verified on social media sites .
How does social media help change our lives ?
With the development of technology , social media plays a more and more significant role in the whole world .
Everyone in the world can not stop using it every day to express their feelings or ideas and a lot of other stuff which helps their friends know more about their lives .
However , it also raises concerns about whether it brings us more benefits or a human disaster .
Although it helps to connect us with our friends wherever we are , at the same time it reduces the opportunities for us to talk to our friends face to face which may affect our interpersonal skills .
Thus , whether there are more advantages or disadvantages becomes a tough question for every human being .
Many people say they support social media since it really helps them to have a closer view about how their friends are doing in other parts of the world .
This is especially true of people who are overseas .
To them , social media is the only resource they can use to know everything that happens in their home country and the way they can use to show their lives to their loved ones as well .
What 's more , these days social media plays an important role in spreading information .
Nowadays , people can easily put their information on their facebook account and wait for responses from others who are from different parts of the world which brings them a huge amount of convenience .
It is quite significant , especially for those young teenagers since they would rather go to these sites to see the news and know what is happening in the world than read the newspaper every day .
However , there are also a great number of people who are against this technology .
They worry a lot about the bad effects on teenagers who are still developing .
They pointed that actually social media reduces the chance for us to talk to people around us face to face .
The more we care about facebook , the less time we will have to spend with our friends .
Nowadays , it is quite common to see at a party , people who prefer looking at their phones and reading all the posts on facebook if they feel bored .
It makes people worry since if all teenagers continue using social media frequently , they will decrease their ability to talk to people .
They will find it becomes difficult for them to find any topics to communicate with other people about .
Personally , I strongly agree that social media brings more disadvantages compared to the advantages it gives us .
Although it is really useful when we need to use it to let other people know that we live a good life , it wastes a lot of time as well .
Putting it another way , if we use the time we spend on wandering through those sites , we may have already finished one book or done other , more meaningful things .
We should keep in mind that there are still ways for us to contact our family or friends .
It would be bad if we did not know how to use them wisely no matter whether it is really good or not .
As a result , it is important for people to know that we need to be cautious about the time we spend on these social media sites .
As stated above , I strongly believe that if we can use social media wisely rather than abusing it , we will all live better lives .
The advantage and disadvantage of social media
Nowadays , as technology is becoming increasingly advanced , more and more social media sites are showing up in our daily lives .
You can see people using Facebook and Twitter on their smart phones or ipads on buses or on trains .
Some may say that the appearance of this modern media will reduce the opportunities for people to communicate face to face .
This essay will illustrate the pros and cons of using social media in modern society .
First of all , social media can make it more convenient for people to make friends and contact each other .
Years ago when these modern products had not been invented , the ways for people to communicate or contact people far way were restricted to making phone calls , sending emails or writing letters .
Some took a long time and some were not efficient enough for people to get their response .
However , social media solves these problems well .
People can contact their friends on the internet and get their reply very quickly .
The communication is also not limited to words .
People can express themselves through pictures or emotions .
People can also get to know their friends ' state and mood by looking at their posts online .
Moreover , people can be aware of what is going on in a social situation , see the comments online and share their opinions on these websites .
Social media makes people 's lives much more colorful and provides a lot of fun .
However , social media may do some harm to people 's lives .
It makes people spend more time chatting on the internet rather than communicating face to face and as such their interpersonal skills will be badly affected .
Some people spend a lot of time on it and forget their real life .
Actually , I have met some people who are very funny and interesting when I am chatting with them online .
However , they behave quite boringly when I talk to them in real life .
Teenagers develop their interpersonal skills and social skills while they are growing up .
If they spend too much time on social media , it may cause some problems to their mental development .
They may feel uncomfortable when they communicate with people face to face .
Some may spend less and less time with their family and not know how to express themselves .
Moreover , some bad values on the websites will affect teenagers and confuse them .
Some may even do something wrong .
In conclusion , the spread of social media sites is a double-edged sword .
It can make our lives simpler .
People can improve their friendships and relationships through these social media sites .
However , it can also make people forget to communicate with their family and friends in real life and negatively affect their interpersonal skills .
But overall , the advantages far outweigh the disadvantages .
So we need to make the best use of these social media sites and make it a fun way of adding some excitement when life is boring,
try to bypass the shortcomings .
Remember to send greetings to our friends and family frequently .
Nowadays , with the developments in technology , it is easy to communicate wherever you are .
The appearance of social media sites truly connects people closely .
People can know their friends ' recent looks and interesting things happening to that person just by checking their facebook or other social media sites .
We can not deny that social media sites truly allow old friends to not miss information and the chance to communicate with you even if you are in a different country .
However , social media sites truly reduce face-to-face communication which affects interpersonal skills .
There are two advantages and two disadvantages of using social media in people 's daily lives .
Firstly , social media sites can connect people with their friends and parents closely .
By typing words and showing pictures , people can express emotions that they are too shy to express .
For example , on Mother 's day , people are shy about saying " I love you " to their mothers so they can type it on his or her mother 's facebook page .
Then his or her mother will also know the emotion and feel warm .
Also , when a teenager is studying in a foreign country , the internet is the only way that he can communicate with his parents and friends .
Therefore , social media is truly good for people .
Secondly , social media sites do not only connect people closely with their friends .
People can also know a lot of information about celebrities on Twitter and Facebook such as Obama and Bill Gates and get first-hand research material on them .
They can learn how these people succeed and they can also have the chance to talk with them and know these famous persons ' thoughts by using social media .
On the other hand , with the help of social media , some homeless people or someone who needs money to cure a disease can get help from the world quickly because once one person knows the information , he or she will share it to their " friends area " , then many people will know about it and spread the information to a person who can help .
On the other hand , there are also problems with the population of social media .
Firstly , when people rely on social media to communicate with their friends and parents , they will become accustomed to communicating by typing and not talking .
Even people who prefer to talk to their friends will meet their friends online and gradually reject face-to-face communication .
Therefore , social media truly limits interpersonal skills as people lose the chance and the ability to practice talking and improve the relationship between them and their friends .
Secondly , without true communication in real life , people lose the ability to see the truth and false .
There are many people on social media with beautiful images and good content on their pages , however , in real life , he or she may not have a job or may live poorly .
Teenagers may believe these people and easily be cheated and lose money or even their safety .
Therefore , social media is not safe which is bad for teenagers ' future development .
All in all , the appearance of social media truly helps people a lot in many areas .
However , there exists some disadvantages which will affect people to some degree .
Advantages and Disadvantages of Using Social Media in Our Daily lives and Society .
Nowadays , with the development of technology in society , social media has become more popular and even important in our daily lives .
We communicate with others using social media , such as twitter , facebook and microblog more and more frequently .
There is no need for people to leave their homes to interact with others ; they chat online , share pictures , tell others what they have done or funny stories .
It seems that people build good relationships with others on social media , but then problems arise .
People do not know how to talk with others face to face , especially strangers .
Then , we need to talk about the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in daily life and society .
For the advantages , there are two aspects : more convenient contact with others and easier access to information about others .
One advantage is that it is more convenient to contact others by social media .
In the old days , if someone wanted to tell some important news to another person , who lived far away , they needed to write letters and it wasted time .
The long distance and time wasted made spreading messages very difficult at that time .
Therefore , people may not have had contact with far away friends and relatives unless something important happened .
However , people can now contact anyone all over the world who can use a computer , at any time , and there is no time delay of the messages .
The other advantage is that it is easier to learn about others by social media .
If there were no social media , it would be difficult for people to learn about a stranger .
They may have collected information about that person by asking his friends , colleagues or family members .
And the information collected may not have been intact or true .
Unlike today where , with the help with social media , people can easily get the information they want just by searching online , and know what that person does everyday at any time .
As for the disadvantages of social media in our daily lives , wasting time , illnesses related to sitting for a long time in front of the computer , quick-spreading rumours and fake news and , most importantly , making people lose the ability to talk confidently to others face to face .
It is weird that people sit around the table but all face their phones and do not talk to each other .
If there is a joke on their facebook page , they may talk to others in this way , " hi , look how ridiculous this is " , then they laugh together .
No matter if it is a party , dinner or just a simple get-together , there are always some people who bow their heads and play on their phones even when their family and friends are in front of them .
In conclusion , there are both advantages and disadvantages of using social media in daily life .
People should enjoy the advantages of social media while being aware of the disadvantages and try their best to avoid the disadvantages affecting them and their friends and family .
Today 's world is considered to be the era of social media sites like Facebook and Twitter which are effectively connecting people around the world .
However , some people worry that social networks can affect interpersonal skills as it reduces face-to-face human contact .
The advantages and disadvantages of using such social media in society are elaborated on as follows .
Nobody can deny social media 's advantages as the benefit it provides in connecting people regardless of nationalities , races , cultures and languages .
Social media is a trending channel and a suitable means of communication .
Firstly , social media brings convenience to the world .
It has erased the boundaries of distance and time .
No more worries about the time it takes to deliver letters and packages .
Nowadays , thanks to social media , with just one click , you can contact your family and friends wherever you want .
You can share photos , videos and every meaningful experience of your life .
More importantly , it is cheap and easy to use social media .
Secondly , social media opens a door of opportunities for people due to its great benefits in connecting people .
A lot of fresh graduates can find jobs thanks to Facebook and Twitter .
Young people can widen their relationships , meet new friends and learn wonderful things in many parts of the world .
In the business area , social media is a good tool for developing and advertising products and services .
On the other hand , social media also has disadvantages which have created worries in society recently and made it a controversial phenomenon .
More and more young people tend to live in a social media world most of the time and reduce face-to-face human contact , which can affect interpersonal skills and relationships in their social life .
First and foremost , we should realize that social media is not trustworthy or real .
Everyone can easily make up the personality and characteristics they want .
They can become anyone .
Though social media does create relationships , relationships and friendships are only firm and real if people have gone through experiences and communication in face-to-face interaction .
There is a story of a girl who lived on social media every night for eight years .
In the chat room , she created a close relationship with eight people .
She talked with them every night , trusted them and shared her life with them .
Then eventually , she discovered that eight people became one as he was using eight different identities to chat with her all the time .
Furthermore , the convenience of social media is also its weakness .
A lot of people use their true information on social media sites , which can lead to crimes and deception .
People can use the information to deceive family and friends and banks to do bad things such as blackmail , ATM theft and so on .
Last but not least , social media does affect human interpersonal skills when people increase the time spent on social sites and reject chances to enjoy social daily life activities as well as interacting with people .
Recent research has shown that the more people spend time on social media sites , the less ambitious they are .
As a result , if the situation keeps going on in this unexpected trend , it will cause a bad effect on the young generation .
To put it in a nutshell , everything has its own pros and cons .
So does social media .
It is convenient and beneficial in connecting people and developing a business but it can also damage people 's relationships and interpersonal skills .
Social media is only beneficial as long as we know how to use it in a correct and suitable way with a combination of both social media sites and daily life interaction to develop people 's potentials to the fullest .
