Keeping the Secret of Genetic Testing
What is genetic risk ?
Genetic risk refers to your chance of inheriting a disorder or disease .
People get certain diseases because of genetic changes .
How much a genetic change tells us about your chance of developing a disorder is not always clear .
If your genetic results indicate that you have gene changes associated with an increased risk of heart disease , it does not mean that you definitely will develop heart disease .
The opposite is also true ;
If your genetic results show that you do not have changes associated with an increased risk of heart disease , it is still possible that you might develop heart disease .
However , in the case of some rare diseases , people who have certain gene changes are guaranteed to develop the disease .
When we are diagnosed with certain genetic diseases , are we supposed to disclose this result to our relatives ?
My answer is no .
On one hand , we do not want this potential danger causing frightening effects in our families ' later lives .
When people around us know that we have a certain disease , their attitudes will be easily changed , whether caring about us too much or keeping away from us .
And neither is what we want , as most of us just want to live as normal people .
Surrounded by such concerns , it is very likely that we are too distracted to worry about these problems .
It is a concern that will be with us during our whole lives , because we will never know when the ''potential bomb' ' will explode .
On the other hand , if there are ways that can help us control or cure the disease , we can go through these processes of the whole family .
For example , if exercising is helpful for a family to prevent potential disease , we can always look for more chances for the family to exercise ,
whilst keeping track of all family members ' health conditions .
At the same time , we are prepared when other members get this disease .
I want to share Forest 's view on this issue .
" Although some people feel that an individual who is found to carry a dominant gene for Huntington 's disease has an ethical obligation to disclose that fact to his or her siblings , there currently is no legal requirement to do so .
In fact , requiring someone to communicate his or her own genetic risk to family members who are therefore also at risk is considered by many to be ethically dubious .
"
Nothing is absolutely right or wrong .
If a certain disease 's genetic test is very accurate , and it is unavoidable and necessary to get treatment that will be discovered by others , it is acceptable to disclose the result .
Above all , life is more important than secrets .
Genetic risk does carry its consequences and should not be taken lightly within the family circle .
After all , what affects one family may or may not affect another , although the families may have a common genetic make up shared by either of the parents .
In cases where an individual has gotten to know of a genetic disorder , disclosing or otherwise to his or her relative is solely a matter of preference within the individual moral system .
The issue on the right to know or not is highly debatable ; although it is a genetic risk , one can not be entirely sure because the genetic information could possibly result from the families of either parents - his maternal and paternal uncles , aunts or cousins .
This also means that as soon a person is made aware of his or her genetic profile , he or she concurently has knowledge about others .
This knowledge may be relevant to them , and vice versa .
An example that may serve as an illustration is breast cancer .
It is hereditary .
Does one who suffers from this disease keep it a secret or inform their relatives ?
In retrospect , it is also one 's duty to ensure that they undergo periodic healthchecks on their own .
Sometimes family structure and cultural beliefs can influence the pattern of communication,
depending on from whom the genetic risk was discovered . For example , the son or daughter of the parents who know about this would decide who gets told and who takes precedence in being 'allowed ' to tell .
For example , within a family , regardless of who had first received genetic information , parents are seen as having the primary responsibility to pass on information to any offspring , either adult or child , who are at risk .
In addition , a woman testing positive for BRCA1 would be expected to allow her brother or sister to disclose such information to a niece or nephew rather than do it herself , although this may be further complicated by an individual 's response to risk information as they may not want their sibling to know .
Hence , there also may be tensions if participants of studies feel that they can neither pass on information to relatives who need to know ( such as nieces and nephews ) nor persuade those with authority ( the parents ) to do so .
The notion of authority also extends 'vertically' .
For example , a grandmother may have more authority to pass on information than an aunt , even when she is not at genetic risk herself while the aunt is .
From a practitioner 's perspective these findings are important because if lay constructs of the family and kinship are a social construct , they may not be in line with geneticists ' views of family relationships or about which blood ( or non-blood ) relatives should be informed and by whom ; this is also likely to be dependent on the cultural and ethnic context .
Ultimately , one must bring attention to who may benefit from such information and assist those at risk to make informed decisions about disclosure .
Whose duty it is to inform at risk relatives or not greatly depends on personal morals and the nature of how 'direct ' the risk is to them .
People with a close blood relationship generally carry some similar genes .
In this case , if one of the family members or close relatives is found to carry a genetic risk , it is better for the patient to tell their close relatives about the issue and let others know about the risk so that their family members are able to perform some daily exercises to prevent the potential disease . or go to hospital and check for the corresponding gene .
In my opinion , although the announcement of carrying a genetic risk involves the issue of self privacy , it is necessary for the carrier to be obligated to tell the issue to his or her relatives in order for them to prevent the potential disease .
I agree with this statement to a large extent .
Focusing on the negative side of the announcement of genetic risk first ;
large numbers of patients with the genetic risk would want to keep it a secret , as the genetic risk may indicate their high chance of carrying certain diseases .
Especially for young people not yet married , if they are known to have some genetic risk , there may be a certain chance that their child would carry the same disease , but not a certainty .
Therefore , keeping the information a secret from their future spouse would help the relationship .
Secondly , announcing the potential risk would cause the family member to be scared of this certain issue ; although the factor would not be that serious , people would still fear that they would have some potential disease in the future , go to hospital , do additional checks or take more medicine in order to prevent the disease , and this creates unnecessary costs to the family .
Furthermore , the announcement of genetic risk would affect the relationship with the relatives , as sometimes others may think to not stay too close to the carrier so that they have less chance to get the potential disease .
On the other hand , if the genetic risk is kept a secret , although it may benefit the carrier to a certain extent and help to keep the privacy , it has much larger negative impacts to the family members and relatives .
First , in the case of marriage , people should be honest and tell their spouse they may carry certain genetic risks that may affect their offspring .
It is better to let the other party know the fact , than a certain type of disease is found after the baby is born .
It is better for both parties to be honest .
Secondly , genetic disease has a close relationship with the together with their daily habits .
For example , if a carrier is told that they have the risk of diabetes .
, the carrier can eat less candies and chocolates to prevent the intake of too much sugar . At the same time , if the carrier tells this information to the relatives , it will be useful for them to know that they may have diabetes in the future because of related genes , and they can perform the same exercise and intake less sugar to prevent the disease .
Otherwise , if the other parties did not know , they may end up having diabetes in the future without any prevention .
In conclusion , we could tell the benefits of telling information about risks to the carriers ' relatives outweighs the costs .
Therefore , it would be better for the carrier to be obligated to tell the information to the relatives in order to let them know and prevent the potential disease through daily exercises .
Among all kinds of different diseases , a large amount of different kinds of disorders are caused by genetic faults .
A genetic disorder may or may not be a hereditary disease , and it is sometimes hard to find out if one has these kinds of diseases .
It is a long term discussion whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell their relatives that their disease is caused by genes .
From the legal aspect the answer is no , but from the ethical aspect the answer should be yes .
We can not make a law to push a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell their relatives about their genetic problem .
It is immoral and impractical .
Firstly , someone having a kind of disease is a matter of their privacy .
Privacy protection is one 's human right .
If a law requires someone to share with others their private information , especially when one is not willing to do so,
it is againt their human rights and it is against the law 's spirit .
The law 's spirit also includes fairness .
What is the basic difference between genetic disorders and other disorders ?
It is unfair to release a law only pointing to the genetic disorder .
In addition , it is impractical to make such a law .
A good law should be clear and easy to execute .
However , there are many problems with the execution of asking a carrier to tell their relatives the cause of their diseases .
Firstly , what is the range of the relatives ?
For example , does the carrier only need to tell their direct relatives like parents , brothers and sisters , or do they also need to tell relatives like his grandmother 's sister 's son 's daughter 's nephew ?
If you say they only need to tell direct relatives , it will be against the fairness of the law .
Other relatives may have the same possibilities of having such kinds of disease .
How can a law made by government exempt such a group of people from preparing to face their potential disease ?
However , from the ethical point of view,
the carrier themselves should have a feeling of responsibility to tell their relatives about their genetic disorder .
By doing this , they may be able to save the lives of some of their relatives .
Because a carrier with bad gene may not necessarily have those genetic diseases , they can have a corresponding healthy lifestyle before the age that the gene 's function becomes stronger .
A typical example is genetically caused hypertension .
Hypertension can be caused by genetic problems which make it harder for the carrier to digest the fat and salt in blood , and this can can cause hypertension .
People usually get this kind of hypertension after they become an adult .
However , if they already know they have a gene that may cause them to have a higher possibility of getting hypertension ,
they can build a daily habit of eating less salt and fat and thus avoiding hypertension .
In a nutshell , our society ca n't push genetic problem carriers to tell their relatives about their disease but they should be willing to tell their relatives about their genetic problem .
By doing so , less of their beloved ones will suffer from the genetic problem .
In the age of rapid technological advancement , a lot of medical breakthroughs have been made possible .
Genetic testing is made possible and available for one 's decision to undergo .
It is able to detect illnesses or diseases and even a child 's parentage .
However , it will become a controversial issue as it becomes a dilemma for a carrier of a known genetic risk to inform their relatives .
If the knowledge of the genetic risk was to be shared with the family or relatives , and there might be a chance that they have it in their blood , they may carry out necessary precautions to prevent it .
But , if if the genetic disease is terminal , most of the relatives will be disheartened upon acquiring knowledge of it .
Therefore , some carriers will prefer the opinion of keeping it a secret .
This essay will discuss whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should tell their relatives or not .
Some say that the genetic risk that is found in a person should be kept secret because it is considered as personal information which should be kept confidential .
Most patients will be depressed after learning of their condition .
If one has a genetic disease after the test , they might not wish to inform the relatives as they might end up disheartening his extended family .
Some will wish to keep it to themselves and hope to ensure that they will not bring any pessimism into their family .
Furthermore , some will wish not to become a burden to anyone , as seeking medical attention is relatively costly .
Hence , some see it as being considerate to keep the genetic risk of getting the disease confidential .
On the other hand , others may think that it would be considerate to tell the relatives because the latter will have a higher tendency of having the same genetic risk .
Hence , they will be able to seek help from medical specialists to find a cure or to carry out some measures to lower the risk of getting the disease .
Nevertheless , it will depend on what kind of genetic diseases , given the context of current medical technology .
For example , breast cancer is a genetic disease and it can be cured if it is discovered in the early stage .
Hence , with the knowledge of having a genetic risk , the relatives of the patient with this genetic disease will do a medical check-up , which might save them by discovering it at a earlier stage .
In conclusion , it would be considerate to inform relatives of the risk of getting the same genetic disease .
Although there might be a lot of challenges along the way in seeking medical attention , such as financial issues , everyone should be given the right to know their family 's inherited medical conditions .
However , some think that it might be better for those who are ignorant of it and will continue leading a happy life .
In addition , some may think that even knowing about having a genetic risk of the disease will just add on to their misery as there is nothing that they can do about it .
All-in-all , it depends on the and also the nature of the disease , but they should be obligated to inform the relatives if there are possibilities in curing or preventing it .
Undergoing g testing is a personal decision , influenced by the knowledge that there is a possibility that one could be a carrier .
Those who are born into a family with a history of genetic disease should be allowed to undergo genetic testing , even if there is no risk at all .
Early pre-examination is healthy as it will cast away unwanted doubts and affect the psychological thoughts of those who are affected .
For a genetic risk carrier , there should be choice given with regards to informing his relatives .
They should not be forced or obliged to do so , as it may negatively and drastically affect the emotions of the genetic risk carrier .
With regard to this choice given , there must be some rules to regulate and exercise personal freedom of decision making .
If the genetic risk carrier is a minor or a child , then most likely the decision of informing the relative should be made with the consideration of the patient 's parents or legal guardian .
Such patients are still emotionally volatile , or may be unaware of the consequences of such a genetic disorder due to their young age .
Furthermore , the act of informing others without the consent of their parents or the patients themselves could harm the psychological state of the affected family .
Thus , much thought needs to be carried out about the immediate family as it could cause a stir of unwanted effects on the patient or the family members themselves .
Some family may feel hurt , with regards to their family pride or reputation , on having knowledge of such a genetic disorder running in their family .
However , there is a role and a sense of responsibility to inform their relatives since it is a genetic disorder .
There might be a possibility that the genetic disorder could also affect their relatives and any other families within the same family tree .
The importance of informing relatives of such genetic disease is vital as it may help to raise awareness and prevention of the genetic disorder .
Also , this known information will help their relatives to make informed decisions and to similarly undergo genetic testing to find the outcome .
Thus , having the knowledge that such a genetic disorder is benign would be beneficial towards their emotional thoughts .
And if the results turn out to be otherwise , then the family can be prepared emotionally and psychologically for the future outcome and aid them in making upcoming decisions .
In addition , the genetic risk carrier would be showered with moral and emotional support from their relatives if it is made known to them .
Having support from relatives is vital , as they assure the genetic risk carrier that he is not alone in facing this illness and will certainly provide a morale boost as the whole family will share a common sentiment with regards to the future prospect of the genetic disorder which could be inherited by anyone in the family .
Therefore , the decision to inform relatives of such a genetic disorder will be dependent on the situation and background of the affected family , with the liberty of choice given to them in making the decision to inform others .
The family of a person with a disorder , whether it be a mental or physical disorder , is always easily wary of them .
When it come to genetic issues , things are not that simple anymore .
Genetic disorder inheritance is generation by generation , but not all of the offspring show the relevant symptoms .
Sometimes a family with a potential genetic disorder risk may not be able to detect the potential harm inside their bodies , as none of their members reflect any observable disorder symptoms .
As a result , in the case that one of the members happens to feel uncomfortable or abnormal , they should be aware of whether the disorder in their body has a genetic cause or not .
Afterward , the carrier will face a serious ethical issue , which is whether to reveal the problem to their relatives or not .
If the disorder symptoms appear in a child , the parent will be informed by the medics for sure , and the whole family will stay alert with regards to the condition of their bodies .
On the contrary , if the carrier is an adult , who has their own ability to choose whether or not to inform their relatives about the risk , the situation will be more complex .
One may think that if the carrier is a caring person who loves their family more than themselves , there is no doubt that they will tell their family about the issue .
That is true and of course it is the obligation of a family member to protect and take care of the family .
To think of the situation the other way : if a child of the family knows that they have the risk of becoming a genetic risk carrier , and the risk might also be passed down to their child in the future , their whole life will be a dilemma .
And of course , they will think not to have any children after getting married , and the same thought occurs to the cousins as well .
As a result , the family generation stops at the moment the adult carrier announces his issue .
In China , the older generation with a traditional cultural background will always think of having more children as well as grandchildren , to make the family stronger .
The reason behind this is that after World War Two the population of China decreased dramatically , and so the government encouraged people to give birth to more children .
During that period , if one of the family members showed the genetic disorder 's symptoms , they would have fallen into an ethical dilemma for sure .
The medical treatment technology during that time was not advanced enough to completely cure them .
They had to choose whether to protect their family or make their family more prosperous with a potential genetic risk .
And so , he would have chosen not to undergo genetic disorder testing and let the truth be hidden forever .
This kind of ethical issue can not be judged by others , because they will not understand the position and duty of the carrier in the family .
In conclusion , people should think carefully about the consequences of telling relatives about their genetic disorder issue .
It is an obligation for a carrier to inform their relatives , but also an obligation for a family member to the family .
Regardless , if the disorder is rarely fatal , or it does not cause any inconvenience to the carrier , revealing the truth is always the right thing to do .
In my opinion , the carrier should tell their relatives about their risk of genetic disease .
One of the reasons why is that as a carrier , they need mental support to go through this situation .
It will be hard for an individual to deal with the issue on their own .
By telling their family , other than for support , they could possibly help them get alternative solutions to the problem that they are facing right now .
Other than that , I believe that the strong bond we have with our family is the biggest pillar of support for the carrier .
Furthermore , as it is a genetic problem , it will be better for the carrier to inform their family , as other family members might experience the same thing .
By making sure that they are aware of this genetic problem , they could have a full check-up for themselves and it will be better if they could even prevent it from happening to themselves .
I find that it is important to inform especially if it is contagious . The carrier could prevent the disease from spreading out to the society .
For every action there is always pros and cons .
I believe that some of the carriers will choose to not reveal their disease to the family members as they do not want to make their family members worry and feel uncomfortable , or even feel ostracized by them .
Furthermore , as it could incur spending a lot of money for the treatment , the carrier might not want to be a burden to their family .
I could understand the feelings of the carrier .
They do not want to be the source of unhappiness in the family .
However , we will never know whether these negative effects will happen when the carrier decides to tell their family of their condition .
In conclusion , personally I feel that it is better for the carrier to inform their family members about the issue .
The carrier should be honest with their feelings and I find that it is the right of the family member to know what is going on in their life .
If anything wrong happened in the carrier 's life , without informing the family members , it could cause huge regret in their lives if they leave without them knowing about it .
On top of that , it is better to think about solutions for their problem with the family members as there are more heads to think about it rather than thinking about it alone and struggling on your own .
In the end , I believe that the support in terms of mental or even monetary aid from your family could help the carrier fight against the genetic disease .
It is true enough that there are lots of cancer patients who were given a second chance to live as a normal person , as they have strong mental support from their loved ones .
In my opinion , as long as we keep our minds healthy and strong , we can fight any disease as they come at us when we are fragile and weak .
As technology has advanced , it reached a stage where the advancement triggered some ethical dilemmas in relation to the actual use of the technology .
Genetic testing has been made possible ; it has become easy to tell if one is a carrier of a known genetic risk through genetic testing .
If used for a good purpose , it can prevent unnecessary unhappiness ; however , it could also make the situation worse by revealing who the carrier is in the family .
The question given is whether or not a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell their relatives and I think that the carrier should not be obligated to do so because I believe that they have the right not to know .
Firstly , genetic testing is not something that is compulsory .
Of course , some people may do it to make their futures slightly happier ; however the carrier , before the testing , can choose not to go for the test , simply living with the unknown and accepting the facts .
If he chooses to live with the uncertainty that the gene holds and is willing to accept it , he could do that , as it has been something that was 'normal ' to everyone in the past as genetic testing was not possible .
It could be better for them this way .
Some people might say that it is a form of prevention of giving birth to disabled people , making them suffer in real-life .
I personally think this is the right purpose of going through the genetic testing , so that a family who can not afford to have a disabled kid do not have to give birth to their child and make the entire family suffer .
However , I believe that the carrier has the right not to be obliged to tell anyone , but has a responsibility to take action to prevent any ethical dilemma .
If the result turned out to be something that the carrier could not accept , then it would have been better not knowing the truth .
I believe that even the carrier has the right not to know the truth .
After realizing that they are the carrier , the emotional damage would be hard to bear .
The fact could possibly cause a problem in a family and create more unhappiness in the family .
Overall , I believe that it is entirely the decision of the carrier whether or not to share the hard facts and face it with relatives , but he still has no obligation to tell them .
In fact , I strongly believe that the carrier should weigh both the positive and negative consequences of taking the genetic tests and take appropriate action dependent on the results .
The emotional depression and the sense of guilt that the carrier might get may be greater than expected and could be a burden for the rest of their life .
On the other hand , without knowing of any genetic disorder and accepting that fact , the family will stay positive and work together to overcome the disability .
I think the family will stay mentally healthy as it is , without having emotional stress .
Debates have been around for years over whether or not a carrier for a known genetic risk should be obligated to inform their relatives .
Any individual at risk for a disorder has the right to undergo genetic testing , but whether the results should be shared with others , especially close family or relatives , is a topic that is worth discussing .
This is an issue that needs to be addressed as a family-related ethical dilemma is involved .
In this essay , few arguments will be pointed out in support of the view that any carrier of that known genetic risk should tell their relatives .
When we were born we were surrounded by our family and relatives , with them welcoming us to this new world .
We were crying hard but we are not alone ; it is our family and relatives that raise us .
Hence , they should be the people we are grateful for and the people we would like to share joy with .
However , in any case pertaining to health issues or to the extent of a serious disorder , there may seem to be no point in sharing , but this involves more than just the sharing of bad news .
One definitely has the right to disclose one 's health issues to anyone , but it is also one 's responsibility to inform the family and close relatives .
In the case of health issues related to genetic risk , the key word being " genetic " which highlights the risk of passing down the disorder to the next generation,
I would agree to that it is an obligation for a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell their relatives in order to avoid any family-related ethical dilemmas that could be raised in the future .
Despite the fact one may argue it is still up to the individual to disclose such a health issue or to keep it to him/ , it is certainly helpful to share with close relatives for a proper discussion about solutions .
By doing so , one will feel less stressed about facing such a disorder risk .
Relatives will certainly be supportive and show more care towards the carrier of a known genetic risk .
By informing them , the carrier is never alone in fighting the battle of such a disorder risk .
On top of that , as the genetic risk may pass down to next generation , it will involve more than just one family .
Therefore , I would argue for the obligation to tell the relatives of both parties when one is about to get married and has plans to give birth .
This would avoid the rise of more family-related ethical dilemmas .
There are more intangible advantages that could support the stand of informing the relatives once the results are known , after the test has been conducted .
In conclusion , in order to avoid the family-related ethical dilemma , it is best for any carrier of a known genetic risk to inform his/ relatives .
The benefits of doing so are able to outweigh its disadvantages .
More support must be provided through different means to give better direction when one is standing at such a junction over whether they should inform the relatives .
The decision to undergo genetic testing can only be made by the individual at risk for a disorder .
This is the common law in society .
However , it leads to a new problem : " should a carrier of a known genetic risk be obligated to tell his or her relatives ?
" This issue has been discussed for a long time .
However , there is still diversity of points of view among people .
Thus , we are going to identify the advantages and disadvantages of the issue of whether the individual " should or should not tell " .
Firstly , I believe most of us will agree with the sentences below : " I was anxious about my family member when they told me that they were a carrier of a known genetic risk " .
Frequently , the intentions of the carriers are that they do not want to tell their families and to continue their own life without the anxiety of families .
It is obvious that it would be better for one person to be worried than for multiple people .
However , many of the carriers are not strong enough to overcome the challenges themselves .
With the families ' support , there will be more energy to fight the demon .
Demons are not easily defeated and it requires much energy and psychological support .
Families give you the courage and support which you can not retrieve by yourself .
That is the most essential element in overcoming the challenges .
Besides , the risk of the known genetic fault is so serious that it can not be described .
The seriousness can be more severe than is imaginable .
Lying on the bed for the remainder of life , and even dying immediately , are consequences we can not imagine .
Families are the dearest to us in our lives .
Without their concern and support , it is hard to stay until this time .
They play the important role in our life which can not be substituted .
A known genetic risk can also affect our next generation critically .
Therefore , it is our responsibility to tell the relatives to prevent the occurrence of undesired consequences .
Generally , the clinic or hospital will not tell the carrier 's families without the agreement of the carrier .
It is the ethic of staff in hospitals to keep the secret of any patients .
We can not blame them ; they are liable to the undesired consequences .
However , hospitals can provide a counsellor to advise the carrier about the action that can be taken .
Therefore , these kind of circumstances will not be happening again and again .
It is a method that benefits two parties which is a win-win situation .
In conclusion , a carrier of a known genetic risk is encouraged to tell his or her relatives about the known genetic risk .
However , there may be some special cases that are hard to define .
Thus , advice from the hospital plays an important role in this .
The carrier is responsible for balancing their own interests and the benefits for family and even society .
It is a hard decision to make but with the most appropriate way , they will create greater circumstances for the carrier and families in the future .
With the risk of having a genetic disorder , many individuals have made the decision to undergo genetic testing .
With the nature that the results will be known once the tests are done , each individual that is diagnosed to be a genetic risk carrier faces an ethical problem : they should warn their relatives about the risk of being a carrier of the same genetic risk ,
or they can choose to keep silent until the next carrier is diagnosed .
In my point of view , a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell their relatives , with the support of the following reasons .
First of all , from the angle of human rights , a genetic risk carrier should not be obligated to tell the truth to others .
This diagnosis can be regarded as a kind of privacy to carriers .
They may not want this truth to influence their lives or want to keep it as a secret and not for others to know about it .
This is reasonable since the exposure of the truth of being a carrier may make them be discriminated against or make others sympathise with them which are not positive factors brought to their life .
Secondly , the relatives of the carrier can also choose to do genetic testing regardless of the diagnosis of the carrier .
When people want to check whether they are genetic risk carriers , they can go and approach a doctor about it .
If they do not want to think too much of it and view it as a trouble , they may just ignore the possibility .
However , if a diagnosed carrier is obligated to tell their relatives , the relatives will be forced to know their higher chance of being genetic risk carriers .
This obeys their own willingness as in they have to accept the truth which may make their subsequent life miserable .
Many people many argue that setting the obligation may help more people , who are relatives of the carriers , save their lives with a larger opportunity because of the early diagnosis .
However , this is not exactly true when other factors including psychological influence and social influence are taken into consideration .
If one such relative is told that they may have a higher risk of getting sick , they may be scared about the unknown life ; partners , spouses and colleagues may choose to leave , and many other situations may occur which means the relative 's life may be ruined .
On the other side , as stated above , a person who wants to confirm and has been prepared to face the result can choose to do the genetic testing individually .
In a nutshell , a carrier of a known genetic risk should have their own right to decide whether to tell their relatives or not .
This should be accepted from the point of human rights , freedom of acceptance of relatives as well as many other social reasons .
Otherwise , making it an obligation will restrict the choice of carriers and bring a lot of confusion to their relatives .
A carrier of a genetic disorder knowing the fact that they are a carrier causes more of a dilemma than getting the disorder .
I agree that a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell their relatives .
There are four reasons why people do n't have to be shy and share their problems regarding genetic disorders .
Firstly , the carrier and their family can take precautions : physically , by actions to reduce the chance of it being passed down to offspring , and mentally if the action fails to prevent it being inherited .
Many syndromes such as Down 's Syndrome and Taylor 's Syndrome can be prevented from happening if the mother undergoes proper medication and does not consume harmful goods during the pregnancy period .
This information may not be known by the mother if she does not tell her relatives about her condition .
If more people ( relatives ) know her problem , more information channels are provided .
If all efforts have been made but the children still suffer from the syndrome then the family have to accept this fact and do whatever they can to bring a good environment for their children 's growth .
This is not the parents ' fault because there are still chances of the gene being inherited .
So , they have to also prepare mentally .
Secondly , genetic diseases cost a lot because of the treatment and medication .
Albinism is one of the examples .
The people with albinism have sensitive skin and it needs regular treatment .
Unlike people with a high proportion of skin pigment , people with albinism are prone to sunburn and other skin diseases .
If they do n't treat their body well , such as by using sunglasses or wearing sunscreen outdoors , the chances are good that they will get skin problems that may also lead to cancer .
Once you suffer from cancer , the medication costs are very expensive .
To prevent the bigger problem from happening , it takes a lot of effort to take care of your body .
If the carrier does n't tell their relatives , it may be too late to get their support and prepare financially .
Thirdly , some diseases are not noticeable and may lead to serious health problems .
One of these diseases is the sickle cell trait .
Usually people are not aware that they carry the sickle cell gene and this may lead to circulatory problems such as blood blocking .
If the parents know that one of them is a carrier and disclose the information to their relatives , then they can bring their children to undergo genetic testing and do n't need to be shy of it because it is for the sake of their children 's health .
Fourthly , it is important for the parents to give a mental boost for their children with a genetic disorder .
When their children become teenagers , a lot of social problems may arise .
People and friends often mock your conditions .
A strong mental condition and conviction must be built from within and from the closest ones .
If not their family , then who else is willing to do that ?
It is not a heavy job for the family if they have to prepare their child mentally first by disclosing the information regarding the probability that their children may suffer from the genetic disorder .
In this modern world , technologies have improved a lot compared with the last century .
Particularly , in the medical field , there has been a great improvement in many treatments for many formally incurable diseases , and genetic testing is one of the methods which were used to diagnose an individual at risk for a genetic disorder .
The medical authorities claimed that only the individual who is at risk for a genetic disorder can make the decision to undergo genetic testing .
However , once a test has been conducted and the results are known , a family-related ethical dilemma is born .
The question is whether a carrier of a known genetic risk should tell their relatives .
In my opinion , the carrier of a known genetic risk has to tell their relatives about this .
This is because their relatives have the right to know about this .
As many people realise , a genetic disorder can be related to the carrier 's relatives ; that is , if one of the family members is at risk for a genetic disorder it means that other family members also have almost an equal risk of having it , so this problem should be treated seriously by the family .
Every family member has a human right to know what is going on with them .
If they do not even know that they are at risk for a genetic disorder , how can this be within their rights ?
For instance , John is informed by his doctor that he is at risk for a genetic disorder but he does not tell his sibling , James about this .
Although telling James about this is horrible to some extent , he should know what is likely to be going on with him .
This might be beneficial for his future if he is aware of the risk of having this disorder .
The next point is that telling relatives can raise their awareness of having a similar genetic disorder , preventing certain genetic disorders affecting themselves .
Genetic disorders are innate , but the great improvement of medical treatment makes it possible for humans to prevent the disorder or to reduce the negative effects of the disorder on themselves .
In addition , doctors usually quote the statement , " prevention is better than curation " ; this gives us an idea that preventing a disorder from happening has far more advantages than curing it .
Awareness of having a genetic disorder may help in diagnosing a genetic disorder for a person , and therefore , this may make the prevention of a certain disorder possible .
For example , hypertension is partially due to genetic factors , but environmental factors also play an important role .
People who are aware of having such a disorder can prevent the disorder from happening by adopting a healthy lifestyle , including having a balanced diet and at least exercising for 30 minutes every day .
To sum up , a carrier of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell their relatives .
This is their human right to know about that , and this may also save their lives by preventing the disorder from happening .
Together with the advancement of technology , over past decades , medical advancement has increased exponentially and further enhancements are constantly upgrading . Empowering doctors with advanced medical knowledge , the advancement means they are able to diagnose and perform genetic testing for patients to help them prevent disease and take necessary steps to protect their life . However , once a test has been conducted and the results are known , the question of disclosing the results to their relatives becomes a challenging issue for both patient and doctor . In my opinion , I feel the strong urge to support the obligation to inform patients ' relatives .
As it is a genetic risk , the patient 's next of kin might have a high chance of carrying the risk , hence the need to inform their relatives is important so that necessary preventative actions can be taken before unforeseen circumstances might occur . For example , if you are the only child in a family and unfortunately you are suffering from a genetic disease , the genetic trait might be passed on to your next generation if you have a child . child , By making your family members aware of the situation , it would lessen family stresses and suffering with regards to forcing you to settle down and have children . However , social and ethical issues like discrimination and privacy are big concerns and potential barriers to enforcing patients or doctors to disclose information to patients ' relatives . It challenges confidentiality and privacy principles . Currently , under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ( HIPAA ) in the United States , there is no legal requirement to disclose information to relatives ; it is up to the patient to disclose information to their family members . Early disclosement to family members brings in positive reactions and prevention of disease , as in the case of Angelina Jolie ; she chose to disclose information and underwent treatment to significantly reduce the risk of breast cancer to under five percent . I can still recall that her reason for disclosing her own story was that she did not want to live under the shadow of cancer .
However , there are still people against the decision to reveal private information . As in the case of Alzheimer patients , it is up to the patient to disclose information . However , research has shown that doctors have tried to calculate how and to whom Alzheimer disease will be disclosed to minimise potential negative impacts to family members ( Dementia Today , 2012 ) . There are associations that provide help to Alzheimer patients like Alzheimer 's Association ( Alzheimer 's Association , 1980 ) . Although there are still thousands of people with genetic risk diseases out there that might not be receiving help and support from anyone , the need to receive immediate understanding and support from family members is of the utmost importance that patients need in their difficult time .
In conclusion , the state should have passed a legal bill to measure and provide information to doctors about to which extent a doctor should opt to reveal to relatives information about the genetic disease , and in which situations it is up to the patient . In addition , the state could also encourage creation of assistance schemes to provide necessary help to needy patients , encouraging them to open up for their own and that of members . Although they may face challenges from social and ethical issues in the long term , with appropriate encouragement and aid from the government , more individuals would have a different view of acceptance and take appropriate measures to protect their own health and their loved ones .
Nowadays , the research in the genetic field has gone further and further due to high-velocity technological advancement .
Not long ago , the Human Genome Project sponsored by several large multinational corporations ( MNCs ) was started .
In comparison , in the field of genetic testing which enables people to be aware of the risk of a possible genetic disorder , as the technology has been very mature already , an even more popular topic arises .
While most people agree that each individual has their own right to decide whether to undergo a genetic test or not , they have different stands in whether it is the patient 's responsibility or freedom to share the result with their relatives .
In my opinion , the patients , who are carriers of some known genetic risk are supposed to share the truth with their family members .
Admittedly , it is a social obligation to be responsible for the lives of other people .
To the whole society , it is a duty .
Take H1N1 as an example : all the people in Singapore including students at school , travelers at the Changi Airport , workers in the office as well as passengers on the street are forced by law to take their temperature and report the result to the relevant government authority in charge .
To the family members who care about them , it is also a moral obligation .
How can they not tell their loved ones who they really are and put them in danger ?
The basis of a family is that everyone trusts and loves each other with no doubts .
Without trust and love , there is no difference between a family and a bunch of strangers living together .
Hence , it is essential for carriers to tell their family members about the risk of their genetic disorder , both as a social responsibility and a way to conserve the family structure .
Moreover , telling their family members the truth is the fastest and easiest way to get their support .
Without the support of loved ones , patients ' lives are no better than death .
Family members , as one of the closest groups of people from which they can get comfort , are a crucial factor in them successfully getting over any possible troubles as a result of a genetic disorder .
A study by New York University in 2010 showed that patients with family members around generally recover 2-4 days faster than those taken care of by professional nurses .
Even for those patients with terminal diseases , the duration of their survival is 30 % longer due to family support .
Some people may say that telling the truth may arise , causing some unnecessary doubt and panic which will endanger the family harmony .
While every family needs to go through these kinds of troublesome situations , the more troubles that a family has gone through together , the greater the bond that will be established between the family members as well as the greater the amount of trust , love and understanding .
Hence , for a family in which every member is truly believing in each other and loving each other , all these troubles are just testaments to make them stronger .
Just as the lyrics of Kelly Clarkson say , what does n't kill you makes you stronger .
Being in an Asian society where genetic testing is not a common practice , I do think that it is the choice of the patient whether they want to tell their relatives about their disease .
The courage to take genetic testing and to inform their relatives about the risk that they may have may result in people being judgemental , while actually it is just a risk and not a confirmed case .
Furthermore , since it is the person 's gene that is affected , they have the right to determine with whom he wants to share the information .
Nevertheless , while I feel that a carrier should not be obligated to tell their relatives about the genetic risk , I would like to suggest for the person to at least share the information with their potential partner ( husband or wife ) since the individual 's genetic risk may affect their future children .
Many people in our society are not well informed about many genetic diseases and many of them will most likely judge or at least ostracise those who have genetic diseases since they feel that the patients are abnormal or 'weird' .
This is because many relate genetic diseases to those such as Bubble-Boy disease , autism or Down 's down-Syndrome .
With those diseases , many who are affected do actually have different physical characteristics compared to those without the genetic diseases .
While we do know that we should not discriminate against them based on their limitations , many people still do it with or without realizing it .
In this particular case , we are discussing whether a person should tell their relatives about them having a RISK of a particular genetic disease .
It is normal for people to demand fair and similar treatment as others and therefore it is normal for people to try to keep some of their secrets or personal issues to themselves in case some people judge them or treat them differently . Many people really love to hear what they want to hear and therefore they may just ignore the word 'risk ' and assume that the person has suffered from the disease .
To prevent that from happening , I do feel that it is up to the person whether they want to share the information with their family since their family may either be paranoid , or judge them and act differently .
Especially when it is just a risk , the option is really theirs since they are not an actual sufferer .
There may be some people who say that it is necessary to tell the family members about the risk since some of them may be affected , and while I do think that this view has a point , how much you can trust your family regarding this issue may also be a case .
Maybe we can trust our immediate family members , but can we really trust all our other relatives ?
Furthermore , since the genetic risk or genetic disease is a very personal case , it is up to the person to tell their relatives about it .
However , as I said earlier , it is better for the person to at least talk about the potential risk to their future partner since their genetic risk may affect their children later .
This information needs to be at least acknowledged by the other party before they make the decision to get married and have children .
There may be a possibility that both the husband and wife are carriers and therefore they should not have any children , since their child may not be able to survive even after they are born .
In a less extreme case , the child may be disabled .
This piece of information does play a role in family planning matters , therefore although no one is obliged to talk about their genetic risk to anyone , they should be encouraged to tell it to their future partner .
In conclusion , whether or not the carrier wants to tell their relatives about his genetic risk , the choice is theirs because it is their own gene and they have full rights regarding it .
They may have different considerations other than those regarding the judging people , or their decision may result in making their family worry for nothing when thinking about whether they should tell their relatives . No matter what choice they make , we need to respect it and we have no right to say that they must tell their relatives about it .
We all know that life is priceless and we have no right to judge a person 's death .
With the improvements in technology , a new life with a genetic risk can be detected .
'Genetic ' refers to the chance of inheriting a disorder or disease .
Therefore , an entirely new dilemma is born : should a carrier of a known genetic risk be obligated to tell their relatives ?
This essay will discuss the reasons why the relatives should be informed that their children are at a genetic risk .
One of the reasons that the parents should be informed is that they have to decide whether they are capable of raising a child with a genetic risk .
The child with the genetic risk may not have the ability to work or to build up the family with the others , and most of the time they are not acceptable for the majority .
They may not able to enjoy a life normal people can enjoy .
This competitive world is cruel to those not able to survive .
Parents and relatives have to work longer than expected and endlessly care for their child if he/ are not able to look after himself/ .
The situation may become worse if the child has diseases like cancer or heart disease , which means that parents have more heavy baggage named medication fees .
Not only the child but the entire family will suffer .
It is still early for parents to decide whether they can support a new life that is not able to work and may suffer pain for their entire life .
The other reason that parents should know if the baby they have is a carrier of genetic risk is for a nation 's good .
There are always newspaper reports that a newborn baby has been abandoned at a hospital after the parents realised the baby had diseases that need a huge amount of money to treat .
Countries like Singapore are short of manpower to contribute to the nation .
However , every year the government has to spend a lot to help the disabled , on such things as medical subsidies and the building of special schools to educate them .
Without increasing numbers of disabled people in a nation , the government is able to concentrate development on other areas like the military and education .
As citizens of a nation , they have the responsibility to support their country in many ways .
Moreover , in the world we are living in today , many miscarriages are conducted in hospital every day .
It is easier for people to accept it morally .
Therefore I believe the parents have the right to know the healthiness of their child .
Many people may support the theory that every person has a right to enjoy the world , especially people with religions .
However , the problem is will people really enjoy their life if they have to stay at hospital every day , with all the needles and endless pain ?
Parents know what the best is for their children , thus they will make the right decision after they have been informed .
Also , human beings should improve the medical field in order to prevent the tragedy happening .
I think a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell their relatives .
Genetic testing is a personal choice .
One should have full control of his/ information and it is one his right to decide whether or not to disclose it to someone else .
As far as I am concerned , when a couple are going to have babies , they are going to run a few tests and see whether they could have some genetic diseases .
The results are disclosed to husbands and wives .
This is not the case I am talking about here .
The most obvious reason for those who argue for this opinion is that the relatives of the carrier are at high risk of carrying these diseases .
They have the right to know whether they are at risk .
Also , telling them the result can let them largely reduce the cost for multiple testing .
They can also take immediate measures to reduce the possibility of having this disease .
If a person has a disease C that might be a result of gene A,
he runs a test and knows that he has the gene AA .
This means both of his parents have gene A and they are both at high risk of having disease C. They could save the cost of running two separate tests to see whether they are at high risk of having disease C. If he runs a test and knows that he has the gene Aa,
this means one of his parents has gene A and the cost of one test could be saved .
His relatives can then take measures , if this disease can somehow be prevented , to stop this disease from taking their lives .
However , this can also be achieved by personal choice .
One can choose to tell their relatives if they are at risk .
Most people care about their relatives , so if there is no serious consequence of telling them so , I assume most of them will tell their relatives to be careful .
One might also choose to hint or encourage certain relatives to run a gene test if they are concerned about negative consequences that come across when they disclose their genetic results .
There are possible negative consequences that those carriers might face if they disclose their genetic results to their relative .
If a person is obliged to tell his relatives , they might be discriminated against by those who do not carry this gene .
They might even be advised not to get married or have children .
For example , if an unmarried person has gene Aa and gene aa is sufficient for a very serious disease,
and after he takes the test is obliged to tell his relatives , everyone will know that he is a carrier .
So all the married couples will go to run a test and know they are not carriers . They might subconsiously see him as different and worry that he will find a wife who will carry this gene as well .
Third , it is hard to define relatives .
If a gene runs in the family and one of the family members tests positive , whom does he need to tell ?
If it is a big family , is he obliged to tell everyone ?
Spouses usually have very close relationships ; if person A tells his family that he has this gene , his uncle C knows and tells his wife D that he needs to run a test because his cousin has this disease .
However , wife D is not even at risk of having this disease .
Then wife D might tell her mother , who likes to gossip on her way to the theatre .
In less than a week half of the town knows person A has a risked gene , and his family might be a genetically risked family .
Then nobody wants to marry A , or his relatives .
This is the potential consequence if one does not have full control of his/ information , especially when the party that they are obliged to disclose their information to is a potentially large group ( relatives ) .
In conclusion , a carrier of a known genetic risk should not be obligated to tell their relatives .
Carriers of a known genetic risk should be obligated to tell their relatives
Nowadays , people not only pursue the comfort of their own life but also a better development of their following generations .
Since the technology of modern society has advanced , it has become possible for people to make the decision to take genetic tests so as to be clear whether or not they carry a genetic risk which can affect their next generation .
The debatable question , an ethical dilemma , is if people are responsible for telling their relatives that they carry a known genetic risk .
In my opinion , the responsibility of telling family and relatives is quite obvious,
and there are two basic reasons for this .
The first one is the importance of being responsible for your self-wellness and health of your relatives and the second one is being responsible for the next generations .
The awareness of your relatives and families about your genetic risk is good for your self-wellness and health of your relatives .
Because you are carrying that genetic risk , there is a great possibility that your relatives like parents or siblings are carrying the same genetic risk as well .
The genetic risk that you carry may or may not affect your health and put you in danger .
If you have n't undergone the genetic testing , it 's just for what will happen to both of you and your relatives .
However , if you have undergone testing and know that you are a carrier , you are responsible for your whole family .
Even though you can not eliminate the risk completely , you can at least try to be alert to avoiding getting the disease .
As for those in your family who are more likely to be affected , they can go to the hospital to get the checks regularly .
Therefore , telling the families and the relatives to get prepared for fighting the disease and even prevent getting the disease is your responsibility .
Furthermore , you are also being responsible for your next generations by telling the truth that you are a carrier of a genetic risk .
If your wife is not aware of the truth and gives birth to the baby , it will be possible for your child to carry the same genetic risk as well .
Being the parent , you are not responsible for your next generations , since you allow the genetic risk to be passed on generation after generation whilst being aware of it .
However , if you tell the truth to your wife and relatives , you offer a chance as to whether to have child or not .
And if you still decide to have the baby , since the technology has been developed to a level so advanced , it might be possible in the future that the application of altering genes is perfected and widely used ; you can then choose to give birth to babies by giving them a brighter future .
This is the responsibility of being a parent .
And in my opinion , this seems to be the main purpose of undergoing that genetic testing in the first place .
In conclusion , once you have undergone the genetic testing and are aware of carrying some specific genetic risk , there are responsibilities to your relatives , yourself , and your following generations by telling your relatives and families the truth .
To tell or not to tell ?
Consider a case in which we decided to undergo genetic testing and have known the result of it .
We found that we actually are the genetic risk carrier .
Then it becomes troublesome about whether or not we need to tell our relatives who may carry this genetic risk as well .
There are really a lot of things we need to consider .
Every choice we have made may have a huge impact on their whole lives .
As a result , what should we do ?
Tell them or keep this secret until we die ?
Many people feel that we should tell our relatives since we really care about their health status .
For example , diabetes is a kind of genetic disease .
Once we found we are carrying this genetic risk , it is better for us to tell our family members because they may carry it as well .
If we tell them , they may start paying more attention to their daily habits like eating less sugar containing food and keeping a good mood .
It is important for young people ;
the earlier we tell them , they will develop better habits for the rest of their lives .
What 's more , they may undergo genetic testing as well to see whether they are carrying it or not , which is also better for them .
However , some people may argue over why we want to interfere with their lives .
Sometimes it becomes extremely hard for them to accept this news , especially if they are going to know that they or their descendants may have a severe disease like a blood disease which is untreatable .
Imagine you are living like a normal person but suddenly one day your relative comes to tell you that actually there is a possibility that you may encounter a disease in the future , what kind of feeling are you going to have ?
It may affect our daily lives and we will think about it every day .
We become so anxious that we can not focus on anything .
At the same time , there will also be chances that the genetic test result is not correct , which means they are actually wasting their lives worrying about this thing , so actually we are bringing trouble to them .
Personally I feel that we still should take responsibility to tell them of the situation .
Since this will really affect their lives , what we should do is to try to make it positive .
We can not let it go .
We should know that although we may affect their lives , we can still let them make correct choices in the future .
It is only after we tell them that they will start paying attention to their health .
They will consider whether to give a birth to a new baby or not because of this genetic problem , and they will start finding ways to try to avoid their baby carrying this genetic risk as well .
They always have a choice about whether to undergo the genetic test or not .
Maybe after we tell them , they will go for it and know more about themselves .
I know it will have a huge impact on them , but we should know that they are our loved ones , and we need to tell them and help them .
A genetic risk carrier should be obliged to tell .
Genetic testing will be conducted when the individual is at risk from a possible disease .
Once the test is done , the question of whether or not the results should be open to their relatives has caused extensive social controversy .
Some say it is a kind of invasion of privacy for the carrier , which should be protected .
They have the right not to tell anyone .
However , in my opinion , it is the obligation of a carrier of a known genetic risk to tell their relatives about their actual situation .
This essay will illustrate this in two aspects .
First of all , it can be an alert for the family members of the patient to let them be aware of the possible disease that they may also have .
As we all know , genetic risk carriers are likely to pass the genetics to their family members .
Once one person in the family is found to be carrying risky genes , other members in their family may also have the risk of disease .
Some of the diseases may not show symptoms until the carrier is old enough .
Therefore , telling the relatives about the situation may avoid a lot of trouble in this way and save much time for proper treatment .
Sometimes lives may even be saved if people are told early and conduct timely treatment .
So for the consideration of the other family members , the relatives should be informed .
Secondly , it can avoid genetic disease passed to the next generation when they intend to have babies .
They should let their spouse know about their situation before marriage .
They need to ask for a doctor 's advice before they plan to have a baby .
Some genes will pass only to boys rather than girls , and some are the contrary .
If the carrier refuses to tell the truth to their spouse , another person may be at risk of inheriting the genetic disease .
I noticed a real story on newspaper years ago,
where a couple in China had a son that was 5 years old .
Their son unfortunately fell ill and he was diagnosed with a kind of genetic disease which is very serious .
They were told that the wife 's family was carrying the polygenetic disorder which could pass only to boys rather than girls .
Therefore their son had inherited the genetic disease .
However , the wife actually had already known about the polygenetic disorder before the marriage and she did not tell her husband .
The son was dead after one year 's treatment and the couple got divorced after that .
If the wife had not hidden the truth and asked for a doctor 's advice before they had the baby , the tragedy would not have happened .
In a nutshell , a carrier of a known genetic risk has the responsibility to tell their relatives .
On the one hand , it can tell members of the carrier 's family the possible disease they may have and they can perform treatment in time if possible .
On the other hand , they may pass the disease to the next generation if the carrier hides the truth .
Nowadays , with the advancement of technology , it is easy to do genetic testing .
We can not deny that genetic testing really helps people a lot when they face the problem of a disorder .
However , I think that genetic information is of one 's privacy , which should be protected by the law .
Therefore , I think a known genetic risk carrier should not be obligated to tell their family or relatives .
There are three reasons discussed below .
Firstly , the information concerning genetics is something personal which is also private , like people 's bank card key .
Other people should not be told without the person 's permission even if they are their family or relatives .
The government should set the law to protect this kind of privacy .
Once people 's genetic information is told to other people,
they may know the person 's potential disabling disease or other bad things naturally .
They may set a bias on this person , even abandon them .
People do not have the ability to choose their genes , and they should not be thought of badly because of bad genes .
So I think whatever the genetic problem is or whether the gene is a match with their parents , it should not be told to anyone , even their family or relatives .
Secondly , the carrier of a known genetic risk may destroy the peace of a family , even break the relation between children and adults .
Once their family or relatives know that the person does not have the relation with them,
however happy they were before , there will appear some barriers which will truly destroy the family gradually .
The relationship between the parents and their children should not be tested only in the genetic way ; it is something much deeper and tighter .
The parents give knowledge and love to the children , and meanwhile they feel happy with the company of the children .
The children rely on the parents to live .
When they grow up , they take care of the old parents and thank them for their dedication .
The relation between parents and children is something about love and dedication .
Nobodo wants to see the scene of a broken family due to the carrier of a known genetic risk .
Therefore , I think a known genetic risk should not be obligatorily told to their family or relatives without the person 's permission .
Finally , the technology of testing the gene is not very mature now .
There also exists some probability of wrong test results .
If the wrong test result was not found by the doctor , the family and the children may be sad and struggling for their whole life .
Therefore I think that information about a known genetic risk carrier should not be obligated to tell their family or relatives .
Therefore , considering people 's privacy and the existence of wrong test results , for the peace of the family , I support the view that information about a known genetic risk should not be obligatorily told to their family or relatives without the person 's permission .
A Carrier of a Known Genetic Risk Should be Obligated to Tell His or Her Relatives
More and more illnesses have been discovered to be related to some genes with the development of medical technology .
People will know if they carry a disease on their genes after they have done the genetic test .
If there is no problem , that will be wonderful .
However , not everybody is so lucky that they can make sure they do not carry any disease-carrying genes .
Therefore , once people find they have carried the disease-carrying genes , they should be responsible for telling their relatives , at least their family members .
It may be awkward and embarrassing for a person to tell relatives that they are a carrier of a known genetic risk .
But if they are all from one family and have the same forefather , then of course they own the same genes in some part .
Therefore , there is nothing to be shy or afraid of .
If the person tells their relatives that they carries a disease on a gene , their relatives can go to hospital to check whether they also carry the disease .
Then the relatives can prepare themselves to prevent the disease occurring .
They can also prevent the disease going to their offspring .
If the relatives carry that disease , they can share the experience with them and give some help . They will also teach them how to communicate with others about this issue .
If they get married , they must tell their partner that they carry the disease ,
so they can have a healthy baby with the help of the doctors .
Or else , if they hold back information about genetic risk , they may have a unhealthy baby which may cause the death of the baby or the end of their marriage .
There was a story I watched on television .
A couple did not have a child after their marriage for a long time , and their parents were anxious about that and asked them to go to hospital to check what the problem was .
After they came back from the hospital , the man told his parents that the problem was that he carried a disease on a gene so that they could not have a baby in their lifetime .
The woman did not know the test result , but she overheard the talk and decided to divorce her husband .
After he got the divorce certificate , the man showed her the test report ; it said that the woman carried the diseased gene instead of the man .
At that time , the woman knew how much her husband loved her but she ruined her happiness .
Tears showed nothing .
People can not avoid carrying the disease which they were born with .
However , they can avoid the genes being passed on to their children .
By telling their relatives that they may have a risk of carrying the disease , they can make their family members bond closely , and also many risks and conflicts can be avoided .
Genetic testing has become a beneficial way to predict disease occurence and protect each individual at risk for a disorder .
However , there arises a family-related ethical dilemma with regards to whether or not it is right to tell a carrier 's family once the test has been conducted and the results are known .
I am most inclined to believe that their relatives have the right to know the result .
The answer is simply that everyone , especially our family , has the right to know the truth .
Though it is said that genetic testing involves emotional and social risks due to the test results , while the potential negative impacts of the risk still exist , the conequences will be significant if other members of their family do not know .
If this is the case , they are unable to have a suitable method of protecting themselves and preparing emotionally .
Taking Angeline Jolie as an example - she is famous but she still revealed the truth about her genetic testing with the development of her breast cancer risk .
Nothing is that bad if you know how to look at the bright side with hope .
People may feel angry , depressed , or even guilty about their results .
In some cases , a carrier can suffer tension within a family because the result is also related to the others ' risk somehow .
However , I believe it is just a normal reaction to this situation .
In addition , although it can be possible in some cases that the carrier and the family can undergo specific discrimination in employment and their social life , how can people face more dramatic tragedy , such as sickness or death , if they can not even overcome this harsh situation ?
Life is hard , but people can not blame it for being unfair .
It is just that you do not become strong enough to overcome the hard times .
Furthermore , living with a secret is not a good sensation , especially if the situations of other relatives become worse ; you should feel guilty and depressed .
Moreover , the truth can not be hidden forever but when it is revealed , it will be more shocking and upsetting .
As a result , it is in the interests of the carriers and their relatives to discuss the genetic test result .
Last but not least , though genetic testing is a personal matter , telling the result to your family can improve and develop understanding and sympathy towards each other as well as promoting awareness of taking care of everyone 's health .
That plays an important role in the possibility of relatives overcoming the discrimination of society and anxiety about the risks .
To put it in a nutshell , I believe that people should have the obligation to tell their relatives about the genetic test result for the good of their health .
It can be very difficult for them , but necessary for the carriers and their family .
In addition , emotional preparations and the ways you explain your genetic condition is also important so that you can convey the correct information to your family and relatives , and if necessary guide them if he/ wish to conduct a similar genetic test .
The Impact Of Social Media
Social media is playing a vital important role in our lives today .
It is almost impossible for us to keep away from it .
I joined Facebook one year ago , when I had just arrived in Singapore .
And now I have over 500 friends on Facebook and bury myself with hundreds of seeds every day .
We know each others ' statuses , changes and so on through social media .
For example , if we change our contact numbers , we will not send short messages to each individual any longer .
Instead , we will post a seed and tag our friends to inform them of this kind of change .
And if you are not on it , you will just get lost .
In certain aspects , social media has brought us quite a lot of convenience .
It is becoming even more convenient than talking through the phone , since it is free .
We discuss everything we like and we have more personal space . Our friends also have more access to what we are doing and what we like .
Also , we get a chance to talk to public people like popular stars and know their life better .
In China , a lot of government organizations have open blogs to communicate with people like firefighters , police officers and so on .
Socia media allows them to explain to or inform people what is going on,
and actually lots of rescuing jobs are done with the help of social media , like looking for people who get lost and so on .
With more convenient human communication , the relationship between government and people can be greatly improved .
What 's more , various cultures can be shown to us through social media .
We can know about more news and cultures through social media .
From this scope , social media has shortened the distance between us .
However , we get less chance and find it less important to talk face to face , since social media is so convenient , advanced and interesting .
Even when we gather together , more people find themselves having less topics to talk about than before and choose to dig from their social media again .
When we are far away , social media makes it as if we are infront of each other ; sometimes when we are by each others ' side , we are seem to be further than far away .
This kind of feeling makes people 's relationships not as stable , secure or reliable than before .
Besides , there are more people showing their pictures of yummy food or travelling experiences .
To some extent , this makes our life more luxourious .
Personally , I am longing to visit some places after I saw beautiful pictures taken by my friends .
Sometimes I even can not sleep well because of excitement .
Social media makes our life pattern so fast and leaves us less time to think about our life .
Social media is becoming more important and we need to think about how to make it serve us better and better .
Interpersonal skills , like other skills , require practice .
Besides that , these skills require time to develop and adapt .
The burgeoning of social media definitely has its function ; but like all good things , it is better to have it in moderation .
Convenience and efficiency are two very important benefits of social media .
While millions of users are connected at any one time , any information can be readily available at their perusal .
This improves connectivity between users .
For example , one is able to send notifications and other information that we used to have in hardcopy previously over the web , and the process takes seconds .
The recipient will then receive the information almost immediately , depending on the quality of the network .
This convenience can be percieved as almost in real time .
Next , communication is also greatly improved .
In the past , vast communication was done by one of many methods such as by telegram , snail mail and poor-quality voice calls .
With the welcoming of applications such as Skype and Facetime , any individual can phase off most of the olden days ' communication methods .
Aside from hearing a voice , a web camera could also be affixed to emulate a 'real ' interaction with expressions and gestures .
Communication would have taken a different turn without the easily availability of social media .
However , it is good practice not to intensively use social media all the time .
Intimate interaction is greatly lacking in social media interactions , particularly touch .
Having to meet and interact for talks allows one to be closer to the recipient .
It involves a level of dynamic interaction which utilises the motor , thinking and verbal cortex of the mind to coordinate .
This is unlike the use of social media , where of the interaction is done with thinking and typing .
As a result , one does not hone the necessary parts of the skills required for proper interpersonal relations .
It is also entirely incorrect to blame social media alone for the lack of interpersonal skills .
Howard Garner studied the effect of multiple intelligences amongst people and stated that interpersonal intelligence is a form of skill on its own - some have it , some do not .
Howard Garner mentioned that the different intelligences can be charted in accordance of utilising tests , and ranked .
Fundamentally , those who scored lower ranking for interpersonal skills are more likely to stumble when this skill is needed .
Though social media need not necessarily be bad , it must be used accordingly - for work , family , and friends .
The types of usage must also be taken note of - informing , interacting , discussion and others .
The space of separation between the parties must also be looked at .
For people who are living very far from one another , the intensive use of social media is justified .
Those who live within the community should at least meet up , and not use social media as the primary source of communication with each other .
At the same time , dynamic practises between individuals and real time presence improves interpersonal skills .
The inclusion of intimate presence and relative touch could also bring a better rapport between those interacting .
Recently , the rise of social media helped people to have closer connections with each other . It is more convenient and cheaper to have online contact compared with face to face meetings .
In my opinion , social media websites such as Twitter and Facebook will not affect the chance for people to have face to face contact and thus will not affect interpersonal skills .
On the other hand , it may even increase the chance of having face to face contact among people .
First , as social media networks have a large user base , they help to link people from different parts of the world .
In the days without social networks , people may not have had the chance to know others from different countries or the ones they have never met before .
The number of people that they know may only be limited to the people they meet in daily life , like classmates and working partners .
Therefore , social networks bring more and more connections between people and they may have a chance to chat with people they have never known before , and this helps to develop interpersonal skills as well .
Secondly , although social network takes time for people to chat online but not face to face , they may still decide a time online to meet others face to face in daily life .
In this case , the social network helps people to increase the frequency of conversation .
For example , if social networks do not exist , business people need to meet each other face to face and it is more time consuming ; even sometimes with business that is not so important , it still can take a lot of time due to travel , which is a waste .
However , social networking helps people to meet and chat much more easily , and they can even use video chat and create group chats to chat with multiple parties at the same time .
Nowadays , even some companies conduct online video interviews with their applicants as it saves time and money .
The social networks may also create some negative impacts for people .
The largest negative impact is that due to online networks , some people start to use and rely on the internet every minute .
They take too much time up using online social networks and thus do not have time to have their daily meetings with people in their real life .
It not only affects interpersonal skills but is also bad for people 's health if they spend too much time on social media .
Secondly , social networks may leak certain personal information to the public , as the cyber environment is not perfect and not safe . People may not protect their privacy online effectively and sometimes , some people may use others ' personal information to deceive .
In conclusion , despite the unsafe online environment , spending too much time on the internet may be the potential negative factor of using online social networks .
It provides people with a more convenient contact environment and improves the frequency of meeting with each other .
It also helps people to develop their interpersonal skills through online chatting .
Overall , there are more benefits than costs .
The world is becoming increasingly more flat due to all kinds of social network websites such as Facebook and Twitter .
We can even know what a friend who lives thousands of miles away eats for lunch through these kinds of social media .
From some points of view , social media really has a lot of advantages by letting us communicate with friends more cheaply and more conveniently .
However , its disadvantages also can not be ignored when you consider it a platform for showing off and a stage for cyber crime .
Social network sites provide us with many conveniences .
Without hanging out with friends or talking with friends over the phone , we can know of their latest news by scanning the webpage .
It can help us know more about each other .
It can make people become closer as well .
For example , if you find out one of your friends ' favourite singer is Justin Bieber through Facebook , you can give them Justin Bieber 's new album or concert ticket as a birthday gift .
It will be really sweet and you two will surely become closer .
In addition , social network sites can help you keep in touch with friends living very far away .
I met some Canadian friends in Egypt .
Without Facebook , we may have lost contact .
However , thanks to Facebook , I can still keep in touch with them and I know what they are doing currently as we are living close to each other .
The disadvantages of social network media are quite undeniable .
Research shows that people will unconsciously hide their real thoughts when they say or post something that will be exposed to the public .
It means that one can not know another 's real thoughts and personality by reading things that they put on social network media .
It will make them quite upset when they communicate in real life .
In addition , with all those " nice " guys around on the social network website , one may neglect people surrounding them and just communicate with friends on Facebook .
It is a common scene that two people sitting next to each other seldom talk with each other but just look at their cell phones .
This kind of behaviour is not good for people 's psychological health , according to research .
Cyber communication is quite different to face to face communication and people who depend on cyber communication too much will not get used to real life communication .
In addition , cyber relationships can not always work in real life .
With no close relationships in real life but only close cyber friends , one is more likely to feel lonely because the physiological need of human beings is to feel the bond with others with our five senses .
With the will of people to become the best among others , social network sites now become a place to show off .
Some people will post about their expensive thing or the overseas places of interest they have been to on the social network , and get a feeling of satisfaction by doing so .
It is mentally unhealthy and it may trigger people , especially teenagers , to become material .
Last but not least , with all kinds of personal information on one 's social network page , it is covenient for criminals to make use of this information to commit a crime .
Above all , a network site is like a two sided knife and people can only take the good advantages of it by avoiding the possible disadvantages of it , such as by putting less personal information on their Facebook page .
The modes of communication have been changing over the years , from letter writing to social networking .
This phenomenon is caused by rapidly changing technology , which has made communication faster than ever before .
Today , social media sites , such as Facebook and Twitter , are relatively common within contemporary society and people can communicate with each other , online or offline , on these social networking platforms .
They can even make new friends over similar interests on these platforms , which will be able to connect almost everyone closely in many parts of the world .
However , critics may argue that the existence of social media sites has reduced physical human interactions among people , as they will prefer sitting in front of a computer to going out and meeting new friends .
This essay will discuss both the benefits and downsides of using social media in contemporary society .
Nowadays , social media sites are able to disseminate information faster than any other media .
About 50 % of people have learnt about breaking news from social media .
This is due to people spending comparatively more time social networking than time reading newpapers .
Furthermore , with current technology , smartphones are able to get access to social media sites which have made them easier for consumers to use .
Hence , social media has benefited the masses by equipping them with a powerful tool to disseminate information almost immediately to the people around them .
However , critics may argue that not all information or news disseminated is reliable .
There might be false information or hoaxes spreading around on social media .
For example , in 2012 , there were false rumors of fires , shootouts , and caravans of gunmen in a Mexico City suburb which had spread through Twitter and Facebook .
This had caused panic among the people who had flooded the local police department with numerous phone calls , and this had resulted in the temporary closing of schools .
The spreading of false information can be a potential psychological threat to everyone , given that social media can disseminate information at a relatively fast speed .
Nevertheless , there are cyber police who roam around these social networking platforms to prevent these hoaxes spreading around .
But there will still be unreliable sources spreading false information on social media sites , despite the high security implemented to control almost every social networking movement .
Social media is able to improve relationships and facilitate the making of new friends , provided that there is mutual trust and mutual understanding between both parties .
Many of the teenagers today claim that they are able to keep in touch with their friends through social media , regardless of their location .
In the past , people used to write letters to their friends and it would take a relatively long time to send the letter over .
Therefore , with the help of technology , people are able to catch up wth each other conveniently .
Furthermore , it will be easier to make new friends who have simliar interests or hobbies .
However , in order for people to maintain their relationships as well as making new friends , mutual trust and understanding between both parties is required .
It might not be accurate to judge the other party 's feelings over social media , as one may cover up their emotions while on social media .
In addition , there are also chances for people to miscommunicate with each other as they can not sense the tone of the other party over social media platforms .
This will result in unnecessary conflicts between two parties over miscommunication .
But , if there is trust and mutual understanding on social media , it will be ideal for people to improve relationships and make new friends .
In conclusion , social media in contemporary society is able to help one improve relationships and make new friends , as well as disseminate information efficiently to the masses .
However , there are risks of false information and chances of miscommunication .
Nevertheless , the advantages of social media will benefit the masses if the negative aspects of it can be carefully taken care of .
All in all , social media is the product of rapid technological advancement and there is more to come in future .
Advantages : social media sites have greatly eased long distance communication and interaction due to its accessibility and convenience .
With a globalised and interconnected world today , Twitter and Facebook are now the mainstream platforms for social interaction .
With just a touch away from any media/electronic device , one can easily interact and communicate with one 's friends without much hassle .
Thus , a long distance relationship or friendship can be maintained , and keeping in touch with your circle of friends has been made much easier .
With the sharing of personal photos , posting of statuses of one 's personal feelings or experiences and the ability to reply to these posts allows human interaction to expand with ease .
Introverts or those who are too shy to communicate with their friends are now able to do so in the form of words via social media platforms .
Thus , socialising can occur seamlessly and effectively with the utilisation of such social media platforms . Meet-ups and appointments are no longer a barrier for humans to contact and communicate with one another , making human interaction possible at one 's own convenience .
Society will adapt to such phenomena as physical interaction is transformed into cyber interaction .
With the frequent use of and reliance on social media and the internet , a society that socialises through the internet will be more advanced and better adapted to the highly connected world .
This will greatly help a society to progress rapidly .
Disadvantages : one of the main concerns of using social media platforms to communicate is credibility .
The certainty of what is being shared or expressed can not be proven physically as media limits this physical interaction , except when using a webcam to chat .
We can not be certain of the reliabilty or truth of some posts or information we recieve through the internet .
We may in actual fact be communicating with a hoax Facebook acccount of a cyber-friend , which we assume to be real but in reality is a fake account .
Photos and information retrieved from their profile page may be fabricated to suit a certain personal agenda .
Thus , the lack of face-to-face human contact through social media restricts actual interaction which can be simulated through the media .
Although emoticons can be used to show certain emotion , this differs from the real authentic emotion of your friends when you observe their body language and their facial expressions .
The danger of such online socialising is the uncertainty of such communication due to lack of physical interaction .
Furthermore , this lack of physical interaction has affected human interpersonal behaviour , as communication is made through social media instead of meet-ups .
This lowers the level of the human ability to interact with one another , which can adversely shape one 's behaviour .
The lack of exposure to real life interaction with humans will not create the confidence and skills needed for one to interact seamlessly and effectively with others .
Therefore , for an effective and efficient society , there is a need to have a balance of both social media interaction and face-to-face human interaction between its people .
Nowadays , people can even use their phone to read news , and everyone can be the first witnesses of what is happening in the world .
People use Twitter to follow the artist or celebrity they love and Facebook to see what their friends ' recent activity is .
Nevertheless , they still can use phones to make normal calls and send messages to contact others .
Not only can the phone do the jobs for them , but also devices like a personal computer , laptop , tablet and many other devices which are able to connect to the internet .
It is obvious that the saves people 's time and also connects people globally .
Several arguments have been made for social media actually having some inevitable disadvantages to people .
People can only use electrical devices to access the internet .
Whenever they need to use social media , they have to use a phone or the internet .
Generally people need their eyes to look at the display screen of their phone or computer and fingers to manipulate the corresponding device .
As a result , they will lose eyes to contact and hands to express their feeling to people nearby them , which means they have lost the tools they need for face-to-face contact communication .
This can be easily seen in restaurants or cafes nowadays .
A family of four having dinner in a restaurant do so without any chatting , because they are holding and looking at their display screen with one hand when the other hand is holding a fork .
A group of friends having high tea in a caf  do so without chatting as well , because they do not know what to talk about but are pressing on their display screen .
Children nowadays do not know what neighbourhood games are and who is staying beside them ; all they know is pressing icons on screens .
These are some concrete examples of how social media reduces face-to-face human contact .
When people get used to using social media to contact other people , what will happen is that their interpersonal communicating skills will degrade and eventually be lost .
Firstly , they will lose the courage to meet strangers , not even having the courage to talk .
Also , they will not have enough experience to communicate with people face to face and will not be trained in conversation skills .
As a result , social media helps them do their jobs but indirectly affects their interpersonal skills .
Social media does have some other advantages beside their general benefits to human beings .
First of all , people save money by using the internet to contact other people and read news .
A father may be able to make a call to his daughter who is in another country via social media software instead of making an international call , which costs a lot for a family on a normal salary .
He can even talk to his daughter face to face using video call via the internet .
Secondly , people make friends all over the world and are able to update their friends with their recent activity easily .
A guy who is going travelling for months can easily tell all of his friends about his activity .
When one of his friends who is not aware of this has failed to contact him via telephone calls , they might be able to get his whereabouts using social media .
These are the advantages that save time and money most of the time .
In conclusion , social media benefits people in several ways but at the same time harms people .
People should avoid the misuse of social media and use it in the proper way .
With the aid of social media , people bond globally , information flows rapidly , and humans live happily .
All of us are living in the technological realm of society .
Have you ever wondered why we use these tools to connect ourselves with other people ?
It started with the invention of technology which has evolved tremendously over the past few decades .
In the past we travelled by ship , and now we can use airplanes to do so .
In the past it took a few days to receive a message as we needed to post our letter , and now we can use email , which stands for electronic message , to send messages to our friends or even use our handphone to send our messages .
From the example that I have mentioned earlier , we can see that distance between us and our loved ones is getting wider .
This is because of the ease of technology such as airplanes ; some of our friends might be going overseas to continue their studies ; or even you might be away from your family to pursue your studies or even careers in life .
This makes Twitter and Facebook one of the mediums that we need .
Nevertheless , everything in life has positive and negative effects .
This is applicable to these social media sites .
The next two paragraphs will be discussing the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our society .
With the help of social media tools , we can stay in contact and keep ourselves up to date with our family and friends even though we are away from them .
Social media sites such as Facebook have allowed us to share our pictures or even chat online with our parents while we are overseas .
These approaches help the parents to communicate with their children and know what kind of activities that their children have when they are overseas .
Social media is beneficial as it connects you and your loved ones even though you are separated by the distance .
It might not be able to replace the joy that you have when you are with your family , but it could help to reduce the sadness of being away from your family .
As I mentioned in the beginning , there are also disadvantages of social media tools .
One of them is that it reduces the level of concentration , especially among the youngsters .
This is because it is part of everyone 's habit to check their Facebook page as their friends will post something new every second .
Thus , you can see that some students will browse Facebook while attending lectures .
This means that the students are not concentrating when they supposed to do so .
As a result , it could affect their lives and studies .
This could then lead to stress , as these students are not able to cope with their studies because they were distracted .
In my opinion , every individual has to take responsibility of their own lives by making a right decision .
There are advantages and disadvantages in using social media sites , however in this case striking balance between social media and lives is the most important thing to do .
Nowadays , the use of social media platforms is commonplace in our lives .
In an increasingly globalised world , such platforms even enhance and complicate the links between individuals in the world .
Thanks to them , people can get to know one another online , without having to travel to meet up for business purposes for companies or personal reasons .
However , it is also bringing some social changes because such virtual worlds are overtaking the real life world , resulting in some negative impacts in an individual 's daily life and therefore becoming a large problem in societies as a whole .
As people spend more and more time on such social media sites , the importance of face-to-face human contact has decreased .
As people feel more confident online , where they do not have to face people in real-life on the spot , they feel more comfortable and thus prefer communicating online .
This results in a lack of interpersonal skills in individuals , especially young students as they always have the option to turn their back to real life and go online .
This becomes a huge problem when they have no choice but to face things in real life .
As they are so used to having an online avatar , they may lose their self-identity in real life and may not realise how to interact with people in real-life .
Another problem with social media is that the benefits of investing such enormous amounts of time and energy are not reflected as something positive to the users .
The reason why it is so addictive is that the more people get into social media , the more they seek attention from their friends .
However , such sparks of sudden attention are extremely short short-term and gone easily , thus do not add any value or meaning to the user 's life .
Also , according to research , it has been proven that users feel more sad after using Facebook and this is because users unknowingly compare their lives with other people 's .
But seriously , most people only post the happiest moments in their lives .
Social media definitely has some other strong benefits that make users stay , such as the links among people .
Indeed , I myself use Facebook just because of the friends ' contacts that I want to keep .
However , the friendship on such a virtual world is so superficial and is not so relevant to real life .
Also , as numerous profit-driven companies realize the huge traffic on such social media sites , they make it a pond to fish for customers by uploading many advertisements .
Furthermore , this also possibly triggers privacy issues as Facebook allows some other profit-driven companies to have access to information on users .
As this happens , users are more and more prone to any possible frauds .
Social media sites are at their peaks at the however ; however , I believe that when people realize that such sites are not making them better people in real life , they will not be indulging in it as much as they are now .
The users will soon realise that they do not need such social media sites to keep in contact with the their friends because , if they really need somebody , they will reach their friends no matter what .
We think we are all connected through all sorts of social media , but do we really get connected or are we falling apart ?
Social media sites like Facebook and Twitter are born with the intention of connecting people from around the world .
The idea seems great , and nowadays most people , even the older generation , will have at least one social media platform like Facebook .
Parents are now the " friends " of their kids , and they can now " follow " their kids more closely and in real time .
People post about their random thoughts or daily activities via Twitter and post different kinds of photos on Facebook frequently , to be connected with their so called friends .
However , we then tend to spend too much time on this and have significantly reduced face-to-face human contact , which eventually affects our interpersonal skills .
First and foremost , I would like to share the advantages of using such social media in my daily life .
As a student , I tend to meet lots of people from different backgrounds and at different settings .
We may meet only once but we exchange our contact numbers as well as facebook accounts in order to keep in touch .
Unlike just keeping contact numbers that we may not even call , social media like Facebook is a great way for friends from different fields or even from different parts of the world to be connected .
With a few clicks , we could check on the friend 's profile and read on for his/ updates .
On the other hand , we could update our profile by posting on the wall and our friends could read the newsfeed .
This allows friends that may not have the time for meeting up to still connect in a way .
Not only that , new friends can be easily met through such online platforms .
Hence , our social circle is indeed expanding .
Nonetheless , what seems to make us connected can be the cause of us falling apart .
The obvious disadvantage of using social media is the time reduction of face-to-face contact .
This subsequently leads to the poor interpersonal skills that inhibit the growth of our real social circle .
For example , we tend to send birthday wishes when Facebook tells us " today is someone 's birthday " .
In fact , we may have just forgotten our friend 's birthday .
We used to send wishes with cards during festive seasons like Chinese New Year , and we feel so good to write one and of course to receive one with stamps on it .
Gone are those times , as now we do mass sending of cards and the receiver may feel less meaning from such online wishes .
As time passes , we may have more " friends " on the list , but the meaning of friends needs to be redefined .
In a nutshell , every sword has two edges .
The users of every social media site need to strike a balance between the real world versus the virtual one .
We should maximize the benefits of such platforms , but be careful of its impacts on the actual life that we have .
Ultimately , the best way to enhance interpersonal skills is still through face-to-face meetings but social media sites are only the tools to enhance it .
Nowadays , social media sites are commonly used in society .
I believe 80 percent of people use social media sites .
These sites play the role of connecting people around the world .
They have the function of connecting , sharing , interacting and advertising .
However , there are also some disadvantages that occur due to social media , which are concerns in society .
Therefore , this article is written to explain the pros and cons of using social media in our daily lives .
First , with the function of social media sites that connects the people , everyone is able to interact and communicate with friends and families , or even strangers , without any time or place constraints .
Through social media sites , we can chat with our friends who stay in Europe and New Zealand .
There are over a thousand miles between Singapore and these two countries .
However , we are able to chat with our friends without travelling to the countries .
It saves a lot of money and time as well as strengthening our relationship although we stay at different places around the world .
Besides that , companies also can use the convenience of social media sites , such as Facebook chat or Skype , to facilitate meeting with parties of projects from around the world .
Substantial costs are saved without the tiring travel from one point to another .
With the huge amount of cost savings , this capital can be utilized in the other sectors which benefits the company more and boosts up the company 's profit .
However , there are always two sides of stories .
Some scholars argue that the use of social media reduces the face-to-face connection between humans .
Since ancient times , humans have interacted with others face to face .
Without the facial expression , it is easier to misunderstand the intention of speakers .
That is why facial expression is one of the most important elements in social learning .
In addition , the point of view in society is that social media sites will affect writing skills .
Based on a statistic report , more writing skills will be reduced when more time is used on the social media sites .
I believe most of us have had the experience of suddenly forgetting how to write a word that we should know .
The auto correction software is so effective when using electronic devices that we do not realise the importance of writing .
Writing is an essential skill for a person to express their own feelings and opinions .
'Privacy ' is a word that is popular in these few decades .
Humans have their own rights and privacy .
I believe that most of us agree with these terms .
However , there is news about the social media sites leaking users ' information to companies with cash reimbursement .
Everything we type in the social media sites is recorded in the server and then transferred to the companies for spying and advertising .
Although it looks like there are no laws and it is your own space to speak and do anything you want , you are actually wrong .
You are not only controlled by the government laws but also spied on by the government .
In conclusion , everything has two sides to the story .
It is our responsibility to identify the advantages and disadvantages of social media sites .
To utilize the technology well , we should make an effort to not only balance the pros and cons but also lengthen the pros and shorten the cons .
Thus , the new technology will be able to bring a prosperous future for our generation and the next .
With the wide spread of advanced technology , social media sites are becoming more and more popular .
Getting connected on social media such as Facebook and Twitter has become a main trend as well as daily work nowadays .
In this situation , both advantages and disadvantages of using social media apply to our daily lives .
On one side , it is obvious that many advantages have been brought to our lives .
Social media provides people with the opportunity to get in contact with each other any time and everywhere .
Whether we are at home or at school , at work or on a holiday , we are able to communicate and interact with our friends .
Even when people are thousands of miles apart , social media makes it possible to interaction by writing comments .
When our phones are accidentally broken , we can also use social media to get in contact with our friends .
Some people who are trying to talk in public can also actively take part in group chatting via social media .
Besides , we can make more friends with such interactions when our friends also bring their friends in .
Therefore , the popularity of social media sites have made it more convenient for people to update friends ' statuses and contact friends more frequently .
On the other side , we need to rethink the influences of social media .
There are still many disadvantages of using social media .
Firstly , interpersonal skills may be affected by the reduction in face-to-face human contact .
While social media brings convenience to people 's life , people are more and more willing to use social media for chatting instead of face-to-face chatting which has a time and place requirement .
People who are not good at public chatting may be more reluctant to talk to people , and their interpersonal skills can never be improved under this situation .
Secondly , people 's over-addiction may unavoidably , to some degree , exacerbate social alienation , and this kind of alienation causes some social media users to suffer from the dependence on virtual social networking .
More and more networking has been transferred to the internet from real life .
This is a potential danger for teenagers , who are growing with social changes , to get hurt .
Thirdly , a lot of updating of luxury living standards as well as other opportunities to show off may make people 's daily lives seem more and more grandiloquent , which is not an accurate social growth trend .
Lastly , it is easy for people to waste a lot of time using social media .
Again , there is a trend for them to suffer from social media addiction and their study and work may be greatly influenced .
Since we can see both advantages and disadvantages of using social media , and we can not deny the huge benefits that have been brought to us , this main trend of using social media may still last for a long time .
Therefore , every time we use social media , we should take both sides into consideration and try to avoid being affected by the disadvantages .
Only by absorbing the essence and discarding the dregs can we make better use of social media .
In a sophisticated era like these days , experts keep producing inventions that are meant to make life easier .
Geographical and transportation borders are not a problem any more , because communication and information technologies are enhanced continuously .
The telephone may have been perceived as the biggest innovation ever created the first time Graham Bell introduced it .
However , since the internet was invented , the telephone started to give way to social media sites .
Many advantages are given to the users .
Let us take an example from Facebook and Twitter , two of the most famous social media sites .
Through Facebook , peope are able to maintain relationships with their old acquaintances .
This benefit can not be obtained through telephone or mail because people 's particulars and addresses may change from time to time , while on Facebook people can keep in contact with old friends just by using a name and photo , for example , as the identifiers .
Facebook is like a combination of a message and chatting service , personal profile , media sharing , and other entertainment add-ons ( i.e .
social games ) which allows users to communicate with remote people , and also to update their status and express themselves at the same time .
Twitter has more simplified functions than Facebook , which gives greater benefits if used as an information sharing medium .
Twitter only allows users to give an update that is limited to short sentences in order to spread the words fast , so that only highlighted messages are delivered .
For Facebook , a comprehensive way of sharing is offered since multiple photos and videos can be uploaded and long notes can be published ; even documents and data can be shared through Facebook nowadays .
These advantages also come in handy as most of these social media sites are accessible through mobile applications in our smartphones .
Despite the luxury that is offered by social media , there are also harmful side effects which people may not realise beforehand .
Research shows that the frequency of face-to-face meetings among people that are addicted to social media sites has been decreasing .
As a consequence , it affects their interpersonal skills .
People can think while typing and prepare what they want to say , but in face-to-face communication , every word that comes out of your mouth may be not well arranged ; such is the picture of your personality .
This skill requires practices and can not be done completely through social media .
There is a situation where a family is having a dinner together in a restaurant , but everybody is busy with their own gadget - posting pictures on Facebook , updating their status on Twitter , or even chatting with friends .
These social media sites serve a purpose to bind people in spite of their geographical boundaries , but it does n't mean that surrounding people are neglected as the payoff .
This is related to the interpersonal skill that was mentioned before , that can be decreasing qualitatively if we are used to facing gadgets , not facing human beings .
Another disadvantage that affects other people is that by only showing selected parts of our lives , we build " false images " in public .
We tend to only share our happy moments in media .
Because of this , other people start to think that our lives are full of happiness with no problem at all .
Other people then are influenced by us and tend to do the same .
As a result , people think of theirselves lowly and this may lead to depression and mental disorders .
It also reduces our sympathy .
This is a serious social problem and affects a lot of people .
As explained above , modern and sophisticated technology does n't always give advantages .
There are a lot of disadvantages that people may not notice .
It is down to people 's discretion and comprehension to help them decide which side they want to take .
So , we should never forget to think of and calculate the benefit and loss of every decision that we make .
Nowadays , the advancement of technology greatly improves the lives of many people .
In most countries , there is an emergence of social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter .
Many people think that the social media sites have benefits with regards to the communication between people , while some others argue that there are several negative impacts on society .
One of the advantages of those social media sites is that they can connect us more closely than before .
In past decades , when social media sites were not yet fully developed , people connected with others who lived far away by using a phone , or even a letter .
However , calling a person by using a phone and writing a person a letter require some cost , and sending a letter to a person who lives far away , especially in villages , takes much time .
The appearance of those social media sites causes those problems to be solved .
People connecting through social media sites can spend no money on the communication , and it also takes only one or a few seconds for the message to reach the recipient .
Therefore , this advantage of social media sites saves money and time , and also provides convenience for many people .
Moreover , this also provides an alternative way for people to contact a person whom they did not see for a very long time , such as their friends in primary school and secondary school .
As we graduate from a school , we will probably lose contact with some of our friends .
Some of them may have changed their phone numbers and addresses , and we are not able to find them through a phone call or a letter .
If phone and letter are the only way to contact them , we would probably not be able to find them .
Facebook and Twitter can serve as an alternative route to make connections between us and our old friends .
Hence , the social media sites serve as a platform for the connection .
Everything coming with benefits will also have disadvantages .
On the other hand , social media sites also have some negative impacts on people and society .
The advancement of those social media sites makes people rely on them so that some of them rather prefer using those sites to contact each other than talking to each other face to face .
Many people argue that this is the most serious problem brought about by social media sites .
The use of social media sites indirectly causes a reduction in face-to-face human communication in real life , which will in turn cause the loss of interpersonal skills for many people .
As we all know , interpersonal skills are essential for us to communicate with each other and to present our views and ideas .
The loss of interpersonal skills results in the inability of people to present their ideas well .
As a result , they will gradually decrease their ability to compete with each other in society .
In conclusion , social media sites cause both positive and negative consequences for people and society .
As a part of this modern society , we should learn to distinguish between good and bad impacts brought about by the advancement of technology , and also learn to avoid the cons and maximize the benefits of those sites .
With the advancement of technology in recent years , the need to keep in touch with people and the latest news has become a tremendous demand .
Some famous examples would be social media sites like Twitter and Facebook .
With an increasing number of users , more than a billion from all over the world , social media sites have demonstrated clearly their success in playing an important part of our lives .
However , there are arguments that life on media brings in a reduction in face-to-face human contact , which in turn affects interpersonal skills .
Let us examine the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily lives and society .
First and foremost , all social media sites are free .
All users need is an internet connection and an email account , so everyone can have a Facebook or Twitter ID to start their journey in a social media life .
Secondly , it helps people to keep in touch with one another .
Finding old friends through Facebook , for example , is easier than asking around people in real life .
Social media helps to lessen the hassle of geographical distance and brings people closer .
Thirdly , social media sites keep us up up-to date on the latest news and updates from almost everywhere in the world , all a click away on the refresh button .
Last but not least , social media sites also link people together through allowing us to create our own groups , pages or sites to share our hobbies , interests and studies in particular subjects .
Hence , it is undeniable that these sites play an important role in our global , interconnected world .
However , social media sites also have their second side of negative impacts on humans .
, It becomes undeniably more addicting when we spend more time busy socialising and interacting virtually .
We spend the majority of our time on sites like Facebook and Twitter , and it affects our daily work 's productivity and performance .
In a corporate world , employers often block social media networks to prevent employees spending their office time on their personal leisure rather than concentrating on their work .
Using text messaging language as an informal way of communicating on social media network also has a bad impact on us in the long term .
The more time we spend on these sites , the less time we spend interacting with one another face to face .
Hence , it lessens valuable interaction between humans and time we spend away from the computer screen or mobile phone .
In addition , there are also some false reports and fake IDs that occur on both social media sites that people use to insult or harass others , like the case of Heather Chua that occurred recently on Facebook .
These malicious comments often go viral and it creates a strong negative effect on the real user in real life , which might lead to an unwilling attitude of the victim towards interacting with others in real life .
In conclusion , everything has a two sided effect dependent on how we exploit it .
With current booming technology , it is agreeable that people become more technology savvy and that they want to spend more time interacting with each other through social media sites ; however , it does not mean that we should neglect face-to-face human interaction as it plays even a more important aspect in our life .
As more and more social websites such as Twitter , Facebook and Weibo have become ubiquitous , seamless and imperative in our lives , people may worry about the young generation having problems in face-to-face communication skills .
However , I believe that the benefits brought about by these online chat rooms tremendously outweigh their repercussions .
Social media enables us to explore the world far , far away without paying for expensive airplane tickets and sparing a one week holiday .
The convenience is beyond description .
With a small smart phone or a computer at school , at work or at home , we can easily make friends worldwide with a 'click ' and get to know about their life through having conversations with them , reading their blogs , and looking at photographs and statuses .
Compared to face-to-face interaction , online conversation makes it easier for strangers to open their mouths to each other .
Since some of their information has already been revealed on the home page , it is also easier to find some common topics to talk about .
Moreover , people usually like to share boldly about their real feelings online , with their masks being taken off in reality .
This has been indicated in a report done by Boston University in 2012 , which states that eighty percent of information posted online is true , while a person may like a status 3 out of 10 times in real life .
This shows that a Facebook friend may know more about you than your close friend who does not have a Facebook account .
That is because we are acting out who we are in reality while we have no reason to do that in the online virtual world .
Although sometimes that genuine shared information may be inappropriate or even harmful , such as prevalent use of vulgarity and harsh harsh- comments , we can minimize those repercussions through strict regulations of online content .
Another advantage of social media is in aiding the spread of democracy .
People around the world could easily share their thoughts about their governments .
That eliminates the incomplete information disadvantage for some remote rural regions , where people are less aware of what actually is happening around them .
One of the examples is the 2012 riots that happened in Egypt and Zambia .
The idea of searching for democracy was passed from Egyptians to people in Zambia quickly through the use of social media .
However , as the government controls most of the media,
this social media may be a tool of their campaign and manipulating the thoughts of the public .
For example , in the 2012 general election in Singapore , Dr Tan Chee Keong made use of Facebook to spread his campaign videos to the public .
Though because of this , social media is still a much fairer and more transparent online platform for the public to share ideas compared to other traditional medias .
Intensive use of social media does reduce the time people spend in face-to-face communication .
It is commonly seen in a food court or restaurant , where a group of people sitting together around a table each have a cell phone in their hands .
They are too busy with their way too many virtual friends and some of them neglect the feelings of their real life friends .
In this case , I have to say that to err is human .
What we can do is to educate the public about the importance of their friends just by their sides and teach them to manage their time well .
In conclusion , the use of social media has more advantages than disadvantages in our daily lifes .
What we can do is to cautiously manage our time spent online and manage our words used online .
With the regulation of government and relevant authorities , the virtual world would be a better world .
Social media sites ' role in connecting people around the world is undeniable .
Thanks to those social media sites , communication among people all over the world is possible and can be done with ease .
Apart from the ease of communication despite the distance , many other advantages such as knowledge sharing and trading can be done through social media as well .
Nevertheless , with those advantages , some disadvantages may appear such as reduction in face-to-face human contact which affects interpersonal skills and privacy issues , as well as some fraud that can be done through social media .
Twitter , Facebook and Skype are some social media sites which enable us to keep in touch with our friends or family who are in other cities or countries .
Through those sites we are able to talk to them , to know what their activities are and who their friends are , etc. On the surface there is no doubt that these sites help us to have a better relationship with our relatives , despite the distance .
The sharing of information can be done faster through social media as well , and that is why nowadays many news publishers make their own social media account ; for example , Channel News Asia has a Twitter account and will update its followers with headline news .
That shows how news and information can be shared easily through social media .
Furthermore , since many teenagers and young adults are fans of social media , this information can reach them easily without the need to watch or listen to the news reports .
Due to the popularity of social media , many people start to do their business via these sites .
More and more advertisements can be found on Facebook ; whether it is our friends who sell their products or professional brands selling their products online , we can get to buy and contact the sellers through those sites , which can be considered an advantage for us , the buyers .
However , is it the same when we keep in touch with someone virtually compared to when we meet them personally ?
I do think there is a difference in it and I believe many of us will agree .
When we write or communicate virtually , we can hide our thorough feelings and may not become ourselves as we do not want the other party to judge us .
Other than that , sometimes the message of one party can not be delivered properly to the other one since the communication is done through written language , and thus the 'tone ' of the message when it is sent and when it is received may be different .
Many people are very brave when telling people about their opinions online , but in real life some of them can be very shy and not outspoken at all .
This will lead to bad interpersonal skills as well as a problem of trust .
Nowadays we can not really trust new people whom we know from social media , as we will never know whether they are even 'real' .
Some people fake their identities on media sites so that they can know more people or may even cheat others .
In addition , privacy issues have become more popular nowadays as some people do not realise that they may actually share some information that they were not willing to share in the first place .
Therefore , while social media sites undoubtedly have benefits in our lives , we should consider their drawbacks and thus use them wisely so that we can gain more of their benefits , and so they are disadvantageous to us in the smallest way possible .
It is common that almost everyone on public transport is watching a phone or wearing a pair of ear pieces in modern society today .
Not only one but many developed and developing countries paint the same picture .
Some say that it is a necessary step for human evolution .
Social media sites like Twitter and Facebook are popular among people , in order for them to connect to others even from different countries .
It also brings many negative effects such as the loss of face-to-face communication skills which are important in their workplace .
This essay will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in our daily lives .
One of the significant advantages of using a popular social media site is that people can reach others easily , even having been without contact for a long time .
In this fast paced and competitive world , people may not able to keep in touch with others .
With the help of social media sites , people are able to upload their new discoveries and funny scenes on them and they can be updated with the new information about their friends .
Personally I am studying overseas , and a busy study life keeps me away from contacting my old friends .
Using a common social media site with my friends helps me know what their statuses are nowadays,
and I am able to easily find a common topic when I contact them .
In Singapore , many Malaysians cross the sea to work here .
Many of them are busy in work and separate from their children .
One of the managers in my workplace has the same situation .
After my manager taught her mother how to use Facebook , she was able to upload video clips of her grandchild .
Therefore my manager would not miss the moments of her daughter 's growth .
Social media sites are also a very useful tool for people to start a new friendship or relationship .
People get connected or closer with same preferences .
It is easier for people to approach one another after knowing such information .
Students can exchange their experiences studying even when they are in different countries .
People are able to share their culture or pretty photos online ; therefore others can spread the joy with them .
Thus I believe that social media sites are a useful tool to help people know each other better .
However , a social media site is a double-sided sword , as it also brings in some negative effect on our daily lives .
One of the disadvantages that concerns many people is that people lose interest in face-to-face communication .
Many people like to use language to express themselves , and lose confidence when they talk to each other .
Although not everyone is good at public relationships even without the existence of the social media sites , we can not deny that it does affect some people with regards to their ability in interpersonal skills .
In conclusion , the shadow always exists when there is light .
We should take the advantages of the creatures we create and try to avoid the negative effects .
Social media sites are supposed to be a very useful and convenient tool to bring people closer in this globalised world .
The use of social media has largely influenced our ways of communicating with one another .
Online friends become real life friends and real life friends communicate with one another online .
Social media has changed our ways of exchanging information and interpersonal relationships profoundly .
There are advantages and disadvantages of this change .
Social media has reshaped the way of communication .
In real life , we communicate with one another as equal participants .
We share ideas and stories and forge friendships based on mutual respect .
However , communication with social media is largely based on " broadcasting and listening " .
When we use Facebook and post pictures and statuses,
we are actively " presenting " fa  ades of our lives in front of others .
We tend to post pictures with the best looks and statuses that are funny .
We broadcast these facades of ourselves to others .
The images we choose to present are tentatively considered .
The audience is not some specific person , but everyone we might know , or even the entire world .
There is an element of seeking out attention rather than expressing one 's true opinion on social networks .
On the other hand , the viewers are not the listeners .
They are just scrolling down pages and pages of pictures and statuses and see one which they might think funny .
It is not the broadcasters themselves they care about , but the content .
This type of communication does not help forge interpersonal relationships .
In real life , establishing friendships requires all all-round understanding in one another and caring for one another .
The latter requires face to face interaction where we can show our emotions to the other .
One can not truly understand a person by only stalking his/ Facebook page , where he/ carefully chooses what to present .
One can not truly show one 's emotions to another by texting some emoticons .
The broadcasting and viewing model is not good for forging relationships .
However , it is good for sharing information .
On social media , everyone is a broadcaster and a viewer .
With my social network account , I seldom read newspapers or go to news websites any more , because I can easily read them from the statuses of my friends .
If I am interested in politics , I can just follow some politics newspapers or public figures .
I get news for sales , clothes and cosmetics from my friends .
If some of my friends have horrible taste in clothes and he/ about it often , I can simply block him/ off .
Information gets circulated .
The most popular information gets circulated the most so I can seldom miss it .
Social networks a role in providing and also filtering information .
This saves a lot of time for me instead of reading newspapers and watching television .
Personally , I feel more at ease on social media .
Looking at the above two points of view , I think social media could forge more interest-based friendships .
With the help of social media , I became real life friends with those from online forums with whom I share the same interest .
I also discovered some of my friends ' interests which I found common with my own , so that talking to one another became much more about life , study , friends , etc .
The communication does not focus on how we feel , or say , each other , but whatever is interesting or the content .
In this case , interpersonal skills are not as important because our goal is not to impress somebody , but to get the information that we are both interested in .
In conclusion , I think social media has reshaped interpersonal relationships from more human-based friendships that require sharing and caring between friends , to more information-based friendships that require a mutual interest .
There are advantages and disadvantages in itself ; however , as to whether it is good or bad we are still not sure .
It is just different .
Advantages and disadvantages of using social media in daily life
People that living in the modern world really can not live without social media sites like Twitter and Facebook .
Almost all students and young adults possess a Facebook or Twitter account .
It is true that social media makes people able to connect to one another more conveniently .
However , it seems that , especially for some , sharing some parts of their lives such as videos and photos on social media sites becomes really necessary .
An extremely interesting and ironic phenomenon was discovered , where a group of friends met and sat around one table , but none of them were really chatting with one another .
Instead , all of them were more interested in posting pictures of this " cheerful " meeting on their social media sites .
Therefore , there is a need to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of social media .
Social media enables people from different parts of the world to communicate with one another .
In the past , people used to write letters and send post cards to keep in touch with ones living far away from them .
It could take a few days or weeks for people to receive the messages .
Nowadays , what people need to do is just type in front of the computer in their own rooms,
and people on the other side will only need a second to receive the message .
Distance and time are no longer problems , which is convenient especially when instant chat is needed .
However , when people become more and more addicted to this convenience and fail to communicate with people who are close to them , their face-to-face interpersonal skills are lost .
Social media provides people with a way of talking and chatting which can never be considered as a way of communication .
When people chat on those media sites , there is no eye connection , no emotion delivery and even the expressions are typed in by using combinations of punctuations .
For more convenience , sentences are shortened to simply three or four words such as 'lol ' ( which means to laugh intensively ) and " asap " ( which means as soon as possible ) .
People indeed go to great lengths to make their words as short as they can .
Then , , once they are communicating with people in person , expressing themselves appropriately becomes a really big problem .
Social media also provides people with a huge bunch of information about people and things that interest them .
For example , on Twitter , it is exciting to follow people that you adore like famous movie and series stars , or business men and entrepreneurs .
It makes people feel extremely close to the lives and work of the people they admire .
Updated news people care about can be easily obtained when you refresh your social media sites on your smart phones and laptops almost every time and at any time .
However , after one has registered with those social media sites which are not reliable , all the information you have filled in will be a weapon against you in the future .
Furthermore , not everyone on the social media sites is honest .
The profile picture may not be the person who that user says they really are .
The reason might just be that they just want to " decorate " their face .
But there is a possibility that the person on the other side is deceiving you in order to use your information against you .
The lack of a pledge of authenticity risks people 's information and privacy that is shared on social media sites .
To sum up , social media has advantages and disadvantages in people 's daily lives .
It shortens the distance between people from all over the world and makes instant communication possible .
It becomes more convenient to obtain and update information by using social media .
On the contrary , social media makes people lose their ability to communicate effectively in their real lives and makes people risk exposing their privacy to those whose identity can not be verified on the social media sites .
How does social media help change our lives ?
As technology develops , social media becomes more and more significant over the whole world .
Nobody in the world can stop using it every day to express their feelings or ideas and a log of other stuff , which helps their friends know their lives better .
However , it also raised concerns about whether it brings us more benefits or is a human disaster .
Although it helps to connect us with our friends wherever we are , at the same time it reduces the chance for us to talk to our friends face to face , which may affect our interpersonal skills .
Thus , whether there are more advantages or disadvantages becomes a tough question for every human being .
Many people say they will support social media , as it really helps them to have a closer view of how their friends are doing in other parts of the world .
This is especially true for people who are overseas .
For them , social media is the only resource they can use to know everything that has happened in their home country , and the medium they can use to show their lives to their lovers as well .
What 's more , these days social media plays an important role in spreading information .
Nowadays , people can easily put their renting information on their Facebook account and wait for the response from others who are from different parts of the world , which brings us a huge amount of convenience .
It is quite significant especially for young teenagers , since they would rather go to these sites to see the news and know what happens in this world than read the newspaper every day .
However , there are also a great amount of people who are against this technology .
They worry a lot about the bad effects on the teenagers who are still developing themselves .
They pointed out that social media actually reduces the chance for us to talk to people around us face to face .
The more we care about Facebook , the less time we will have to spend with our friends .
Nowadays , it is quite common to see that at a party , people would prefer to look at their phones and read all the posts on Facebook if they feel bored .
It makes people worry because if all the teenagers continue using social media frequently , they will decrease their ability to talk to people .
They will feel it becomes difficult for them to find any topics to communicate to other people .
Personally , I strongly agree that social media brings more disadvantages compared to the advantages it gives us .
Although it is really useful when we need to use it to let other people know we really live a good life , it wastes a lot of time as well .
Thinking of it another way , if we put the time we spend on wandering on those to better use , we may finish book or do other , more meaningful things .
We should keep in mind that there are still ways for us to contact with our family or friends .
Everything will be bad if we do n't know how to use them wisely no matter whether they are really good or not .
As a result , it is important for people to know that we need to be cautious about the time we spend on these social media sites .
As stated above , I strongly believe that if we can use social media wisely rather than abusing it , we will all live a better life .
The advantage and disadvantage of social media
Nowadays , as technology is becoming increasingly advanced , more and more social media sites are showing up in our daily lives .
You can see people playing on Facebook or Twitter through their smart phones or iPads on buses or trains .
Some may say that the appearance of this modern media will reduce the chance for people to communicate face to face .
This essay will illustrate the pros and cons of using social media in modern society .
Firstly of all , social media can make it more convenient for people to make friends and contact each other .
Years ago when these modern products had not been popular , the way for people to communicate or contact people far way was still restricted to making phone calls , sending emails or writing letters .
Some methods will take a long time and some are not efficient enough for people to get their response .
However , social media solves these problems well .
People can contact their friends on the internet and get their reply very fast .
The communication is also not limited to words .
People can express themselves through pictures or emoticons .
People can also get to know their friends ' states and moods by looking at their posts on line .
Moreover , people can be aware of what is going on in social situations , see the comments online and share their opinions on these websites .
Social media makes people 's lives much more colorful and provides a lot of fun .
However , social media may do some harm to people 's lives .
It will make people spend more time chatting on the internet rather than communicating face to face , such that interpersonal skills will be badly affected .
Some people spend a lot of time on it and forget their real life .
Actually , I have seen some people who are very funny and interesting when I am chatting with them online,
however they behave quite boringly when I talk to them in real life .
Teenagers are developing their interpersonal skills and social skills when they are growing up .
If they spend too much time on these social media sites , it may cause some problems to their mental development .
They may feel uncomfortable when they communicate with people face to face .
Some may share less and less time with their family and not know how to express themselves .
Moreover , some wrong values on the websites will affect teenagers and confuse them .
Some may even do something wrong .
In conclusion , the showing up of social media sites is a double edged sword .
It can make our lives simpler .
People can promote their friendships and relationships through social media .
Conversely , it can also make people forget to communicate with their family and friends in real life and negatively affect their interpersonal skills .
But overall , the advantages far outweigh its disadvantages .
So we need to make the best use of social media and make it a fun way of adding some excitement when life is boring,
try to bypass the shortcomings
and remember to send greetings to our friends and family frequently .
Nowadays , with the advancement of technology , it is easy to communicate wherever you are .
The appearance of social media sites has truly connected people closely .
People can know their friends ' recent looks and interesting things that happen to that people just by checking their Facebook or other social media sites .
We can not deny that social media sites truly allow old friends to not lose the information and the chance to communicate with you , even you are in a different country .
However , social media sites truly reduce the face to face communication which truly affects interpersonal skills .
There are two advantages and two disadvantages of using social media in people 's daily lives .
Firstly , social media sites can connect people with their friends and parents closely .
By typing words and showing pictures , people can express emotions that they are too shy to express .
For example , on mother 's day , people are too shy to say " I love you " to their mothers so they type it on their mother 's Facebook page .
Then their mother will also know the emotion and feel warm .
On the other hand , when the teenager is studying in a foreign country , the internet is the only way that they can communicate with their parents and friends .
Therefore , social media is truly good for people .
Secondly , social media sites can not only connect people with their friends closely,
but people can also learn much information about celebrities on Twitter and Facebook , such as Obama and Bill Gates , and get first-hand study materials on them .
They can learn how these people succeed and they can also have the chance to talk with them and know these famous people 's thoughts by using social media .
On the other hand , with the help of social media , some homeless people or someone who needs the money to cure a disease can get the help from the world quickly , because once one person knows the information , they will share it to their " friends area " , so many people will know it and spread the information to the person who can give help .
On the other hand , there are also problems with the population of social media .
Firstly , when people rely on social media to communicate with their friends and parents , they will become accustomed to communicating by typing and not talking .
People even prefer talk to their friends and meet their friends online , and gradually reject face-to-face communication .
Therefore , social media truly limits interpersonal skills to the point that people lose the chance and the ability to practice talking and improve the relationship between them and their friends .
Secondly , without true communication in real life , people lose the ability to see the truth .
There are many people on social media with a beautiful image and good content on their pages ; however in real life , they may not have jobs or live poorly .
Teenagers may believe these people and easily be cheated and lose money , even their safety .
Therefore , social media is not safe when it is bad for a teenager 's future development .
All in all , the appearance of social media truly helps people a lot in many areas .
However , there exists some disadvantages which will affect people to some degree .
Advantages and Disadvantages of Using Social Media in Our Daily life and Society .
Nowadays , with the development of technology and society , social media has become more popular and even important in our daily lives .
We communicate with others using social media , such as Twitter , Facebook and Microblog , more and more frequently .
There is no need to for people to go out of their home to interact with others ; they chat online , share pictures , and tell others what they have done or funny stories .
It seems that people build a good relationship with others on social media , but problems come out .
People do not know how to talk with others face to face , especially to strangers .
Thus , we need to talk about the advantages and disadvantages of using social media in your daily life and society .
As for the advantages , there are two aspects : it is more convenient to contact others , and to know about others .
One advantage is that it is more convenient to contact others by social media .
In the old days , if one wanted to tell some important news to another person , who lives far away , they needed to write letters and it wasted time .
The long distance and time time-consumption made spreading messages very difficult at that time .
Therefore , people may not have stayed in contact with faraway friends and relatives unless there was something important .
However , people now can contact anyone from all over the world who can use a computer at any time , and there is no time delay of messages .
The other advantage is that it is easier to know about others on social media .
If there is no social media , it is difficult for people to know about a stranger .
They may collect information about that person by asking their friends , colleagues or family members,
and the information collected may not be intact or true .
Unlike today , with the help of social media , people can easily get the information they want just by searching online , and know about what that person did everyday at what time .
As for the disadvantages of social media in our daily lives , these include wasting time , illness related to sitting a long time in front of the computer , quickly quick-spreading rumours and fake news , and most importantly , making people lose the ability to talk to others face to face confidently .
It is weird that people sit around the table but all face their phones and do not talk with each other .
If there is a joke on their Facebook page , they may talk to others in this way : " hi , look , how ridiculous this is " , then laugh together .
No matter if it is a party , dinner or just simply a get-together , there always are some people bowing their heads and playing with their phones even if their family and friends are in front of them .
In conclusion , there are both advantages and disadvantages of using social media in daily life .
People should enjoy the advantages of social media while being aware of the disadvantages , and try their best to avoid the disadvantages happening to them and their friends and family .
Today 's world is considered to be the era of social media sites like Facebook and Twitter , which are attractively connecting people around the world .
However , some people worry that social networking can affect interpersonal skills as it reduces face-to-face human contact .
The advantages and disadvantages of using such social media sites in the society are elaborated on as follows .
Nobody can deny social media 's advantages with regards to the benefit it provides in connecting people regardless of nationality , race , culture and language .
Social media is a trending channel and a suitable method of communications .
Firstly , social media brings convenience to the world .
It has erased the boundaries of distance and time .
There are no more worries about the time it takes to deliver letters and packages .
Nowadays , thanks to the help of social media , with just one click , you can contact your family and friends wherever you want .
You can share photos , videos and every meaningful experience of your life .
More importantly , it is cheap and easy to use social media .
Secondly , social media networking opens the door of opportunities for people due to its great benefit in connecting .
A lot of fresh graduates can find jobs thanks to Facebook and Twitter .
Young people can widen their relationships , meet new friends and learn wonderful things in many parts of the world .
In business areas , social media is a good tool to develop and advertise products and services .
On the other hand , social media also has disadvantages which have created worries in society recently and made it a controversial phenomenon .
More and more young people tend to live in the social media world most of the time and reduce face-to-face human contact , which can affect interpersonal skills and relationships in their social life .
First and foremost , we should realize that the social media world is not trustworthy or real .
Everyone can easily make up the personality and characteristics they want .
They can become anyone .
Though social media does create relationships , relationships and friendships are only firm and real if people have gone through experiences and communication using face-to-face interaction .
There is a story of a girl who lives in the social media world every night for eight years .
In a chat room , she created a close relationship with eight people .
She talked with them every night , trusted them and shared her life with them .
Then eventually , she discovered that eight people became one as he was using eight different identities to chat with her all the time .
Furthermore , the convenience of social media is also its weakness .
A lot of people use their true information on social media sites , which can lead to crimes and deception .
People can use the information to deceive family , friends and banks to do bad things such as blackmail , ATM theft and so on .
Last but not least , social media does affect human interpersonal skills when people increase their time on social sites and reject chances to expose themselves to social daily life activities as well as interact with people .
Recent research has shown that the more people spend time on social media sites , the less ambitious they become .
As a result , if the situation keeps going on in this unexpected trend , it will cause a bad effect on the young generation .
To put it in a nutshell , everything has its own pros and cons .
So does a social media network .
It not only is convenient and beneficial in connecting people and developing business , but it also can damage people 's relationships and interpersonal skills .
Social media is only beneficial as long as we know how to use it in a correct and suitable way , with a combination of both social media sites and daily life interaction to develop people 's potentials to the fullest .
